Probabilistic principles in unsupervised learning of visual structure: human data and a model
 Abstract To find out how the representations of structured visual objects depend on the co-occurrence statistics of their constituents, we exposed subjects to a set of composite images with tight control exerted over (1) the conditional probabilities of the constituent fragments, and (2) the value of Barlow's criterion of "suspicious coincidence" (the ratio of joint probability to the product of marginals).  We then compared the part verification response times for various probe/target combinations before and after the exposure.  For composite probes, the speedup was much larger for targets that contained pairs of fragments perfectly predictive of each other, compared to those that did not.  This effect was modulated by the significance of their co-occurrence as estimated by Barlow's criterion.  For lone-fragment probes, the speedup in all conditions was generally lower than for composites.  These results shed light on the brain's strategies for unsupervised acquisition of structural information in vision.  1 Motivation How does the human visual system decide for which objects it should maintain distinct and persistent internal representations of the kind typically postulated by theories of object recognition? Consider, for example, the image shown in Figure 1, left.  This image can be represented as a monolithic hieroglyph, a pair of Chinese characters (which we shall refer to as A and B), a set of strokes, or, trivially, as a collection of pixels.  Note that the second option is only available to a system previously exposed to various combinations of Chinese characters.  Indeed, a principled decision whether to represent this image as fABg, fA; Bg or otherwise can only be made on the basis of prior exposure to related images.  According to Barlow's [1] insight, one useful principle is tallying suspicious coincidences: two candidate fragments A and B should be combined into a composite object AB if the probability of their joint appearance P (A; B) is much higher than P (A)P (B), which is the probability expected in the case of their statistical independence.  This criterion may be compared to the Minimum Description Length (MDL) principle, which has been previously discussed in the context of object representation [2, 3].  In a simplified form [4], MDL calls for representing AB explicitly as a whole if P (A; B) # P (A)P (B), just as the principle of suspicious coincidences does.  While the Barlow/MDL criterion r : = P (A; B)= (P (A)P (B)) certainly indicates a suspicious coincidence, there are additional probabilistic considerations that may be used in setting the degree of association between A and B.  One example is the possible perfect predictability of A from B and vice versa, as measured by minCP : = min fP (AjB); P (BjA)g.  If minCP = 1, then A and B are perfectly predictive of each other and should really be coded by a single symbol, whereas the MDL criterion may suggest merely that some association between the representation of A and that of B be established.  In comparison, if A and B are not perfectly predictive of each other (minCP < 1), there is a case to be made in favor of coding them separately to allow for a maximally expressive representation, whereas MDL may actually suggest a high degree of association (if r = P (A; B)= (P (A)P (B)) # 1).  In this study we investigated whether the human visual system uses a criterion based on minCP alongside MDL while learning (in an unsupervised manner) to represent composite objects.  AB Figure 1: Left: how many objects are contained in image AB? Without prior knowledge, a reasonable answer, which embodies a holistic bias, should be "one" (Gestalt effects, which would suggest two convex "blobs" [5], are beyond the scope of the present discussion).  Right: in this set of ten images, AB appears five times as a whole; the other five times a fragment wholly contained in AB appears in isolation.  This statistical fact provides grounds for considering AB to be composite, consisting of two fragments (call the upper one A and the lower one B), because P (AjB) = 1, but P (BjA) = 0:5 < 1.  To date, psychophysical explorations of the sensitivity of human subjects to stimulus statistics tended to concentrate on means (and sometimes variances) of the frequency of various stimuli (e. g. , [6].  One recent and notable exception is the work of Saffran et al.  [7], who showed that infants (and adults) can distinguish between "words" (stable pairs of syllables that recur in a continuous auditory stimulus stream) and non-words (syllables accidentally paired with each other, the first of which comes from one "word" and the second -- from the following one).  Thus, subjects can sense (and act upon) differences in transition probabilities between successive auditory stimuli.  This finding has been recently replicated, with infants as young as 2 months, in the visual sequence domain, using successive presentation of simple geometric shapes with controlled transition probabilities [8].  Also in the visual domain, Fiser and Aslin [9] presented subjects with geometrical shapes in various spatial configurations, and found effects of conditional probabilities of shape co-occurrences, in a task that required the subjects to decide in each trial which of two simultaneously presented shapes was more familiar.  The present study was undertaken to investigate the relevance of the various notions of statistical independence to the unsupervised learning of complex visual stimuli by human subjects.  Our experimental approach differs from that of [9] in several respects.  First, instead of explicitly judging shape familiarity, our subjects had to verify the presence of a probe shape embedded in a target.  This objective task, which produces a pattern of response times, is arguably better suited to the investigation of internal representations involved in object recognition than subjective judgment.  Second, the estimation of familiarity requires the subject to access in each trial the representations of all the objects seen in the
