CINNIC, a new computational algorithm for the modeling of early visual contour integration in humans
 In order to gain a better understanding of visual saliency, we have developed and algorithm which simulates the phenomenon of contour integration for the purpose of visual saliency.  The model developed consists of the classical butterfly pattern of connection between orientation selective neurons in the primary visual cortex.  In addition, we also add a local group suppression gain control to eliminate extraneous noise and a fast plasticity term which helps to account for closure effect often observed in humans exposed to closed contour maps.  Results from real world images suggest that our algorithm is effective at picking out reasonable contours from a scene.  The results improved with the introduction of both the fast plasticity and group suppression.  An addition of multi scale analysis has also increased the effectiveness as well.  1 Introduction We have created an algorithm, which will integrate contours in real world images.  The idea is to emulate the way the human brain integrates contours for visual salience in early visual pre-processing.  To this end, our goal is to simulate saliency for a given contour.  The important components of this model are not only its abilities to find contours in an image, but for it to find contours that a human finds salient as well.  Such things include contour continuity, length, closure and the uniqueness of the contour when compared to its background.  Our approach has been to start with a simple model of neural connections.  We use here a standard butterfly shape for connections, which has been tried with success in the past (for instance Li[2]).  The elements of the butterfly pattern are connections that branch out like wings to co-linear neurons, which creates excitation on the neurons it connects to.  However, suppression is also added with a set of orthogonal wings that are used to suppress parallel contours.  The end result should be that the butterfly
