Reasoning with Classifiers
 The emphasis of the research in machine learning has been on the study of learning single concepts from examples.  In this framework the learner attempts to learn a single hidden function from a collection of examples, assumed to be drawn independently from some unknown probability distribution, and its performance is measured when classifying future examples.  In the context of natural language, for example, work in this direction has allowed researchers and practitioners to address the robust learnability of predicates such as "the part-of-speech of the word can in the given sentence is noun", "the semantic sense of the word "plant" in the given sentence is "an industrial plant", or determine, in a given sentence, the word that starts a noun phrase.  In fact, a large number of disambiguation problems such as part-of speech tagging, word-sense disambiguation, prepositional phrase attachment, accent restoration, word choice selection in machine translation, context-sensitive spelling correction, word selection in speech recognition and identifying discourse markers have been addressed using machine learning techniques -- in each of these problems it is necessary to disambiguate two or more [semantically, syntactically or structurally]-distinct forms which have been fused together into the same representation in some medium; a stand alone classifier can be learned to perform these task quite successfully [10].  ? Paper written to accompany an invited talk at ECML'02.  This research is supported by NSF grants IIS-99-84168,ITR-IIS-00-85836 and an ONR MURI award.  However, in many cases -- as in most natural language and visual processing situations -- higher level decisions depend on the outcomes of several different but mutually dependent classifiers.  Consider, for example, the problem of chunking natural language sentences where the goal is to identify several kinds of phrases (e. g.  noun (NP), verb (VP) and prepositional (PP) phrases) in sentences, as in: [NP He ] [VP reckons ] [NP the current account deficit ] [VP will narrow ] [PP to ] [NP only $ 1. 8 billion ] [PP in ] [NP September] .  A task of this sort involves multiple predictions that interact in some way.  For example, one way to address the problem is to utilize two classifiers for each type of phrase, one of which recognizes the beginning of the phrase, and the other its end.  Clearly, there are constraints over the predictions; for instance, phrases cannot overlap and there may also be probabilistic constraints over the order of phrases and over their lengths.  The goal is to minimize some global measure of accuracy, not necessarily to maximize the performance of each individual classifier involved in the decision [8].  As a second example, consider the problem of recognizing the kill (KFJ, Oswald) relation in the sentence "J.  V.  Oswald was murdered at JFK after his assassin, R.  U.  KFJ. . . ".  This task requires making several local decisions, such as identifying named entities in the sentence, in order to support the relation identification.  For example, it may be useful to identify that Oswald and KFJ are people, and JFK is a location.  In addition, it is necessary to identify that the action kill is described in the sentence.  All of this information will help to discover the desired relation and identify its arguments.  At the same time, the relation kill constrains its arguments to be people (or at least, not to be locations) and, in turn, helps to enforce that Oswald and KFJ are likely to be people, while JFK is not.  Finally, consider the challenge of designing a free-style natural language user interface that allows users to request in-depth information from a large collection of on-line articles, the web, or other semi-structured information sources.  Specifically, consider the computational processes required in order to "understand" a simple question of the form "what is the fastest automobile in the world?", and respond correctly to it.  A straight forward key-word search may suggest that the following two passages contain the answer: . . .  will stretch Volkswagen's lead in the world's fastest growing vehicle market.  Demand for cars is expected to soar.
