FEATURE INTEGRATION IN CHILDREN WITH EARLY BRAIN DAMAGE: MEDICAL PSYCHOPHYSICS AND BRAIN IMAGING
 Abstract We psychophysically examine feature integration in patients with brain damage of very early origin.  Paticipants were patients (aged 14-16 yrs) with mild and severe periventricular leikomalacia (PVL) over the parieto-occipital area born at 27-33 weeks of gestation and two groups of healthy controls (preterms without PVL and fullterms) matched for age, gender and parental occupational status.  They were shown point-light biological motion.  Half the stimuli represented an 11-dot point-light walker embedded in a 44-dot simultaneous mask, while the other half were 55-dot masks.  In a confidencerating procedure, participants judged the presence of a walker.  ROC-analysis indicates higher susceptibility of patient's visual system to camouflage of a point-light figure.  Sensitivity in fullterm controls as well as in preterms without PVL was equally high, and significantly better than detection by patients.  The findings indicate that specific visuoperceptual deficits for preterms with bilateral parieto-occipital PVL can be revealed in middle childhood.  This points to some restrictions in the spontaneous compensatory potential of the brain with early bilateral periventricular lesions.  Although recent theoretical framework and experimental findings help to recognize a great compensatory potential of the human developing brain, the mechanisms of the spontaneous compensatory plasticity and, in particular, limitations on it are still largely unknown.  This is especially true for the case when damage of the functionally relevant brain regions are prenatal or of very early origin, and symmetrical, i. e.  equally involve both brain hemispheres (Kr geloh-Mann, Toft, Lunding, et al. , 1999).  Here we tested (i) whether patients born preterm with bilateral periventricular lesions, namely, with periventricular leukomalacia (PVL) over the parieto-occipital area, exhibit specific pattern of visuo-perceptual deficits, and (ii) whether these deficiencies can be revealed in middle childhood.  Clinical diagnostic procedures routinely applied to detect the visuo-perceptual deficits are confined to either low-level visual tasks (e. g. , visual acuity measurements) or standard psychometric tests.  The disadvantage of such approaches is that both low-level visual performance and the results of cognitive tests fail to account for difficulties on "intermediate" visual-perceptual tasks.  Apparently, preterm children have difficulties in building coherent Gestalt-like representations, although they demonstrate unimpaired ability to detect even very small details (Jacobson, Lundin, Flodmark, & Ellstr m, 1998).  For testing Gestalt-formation in preterm children, we suggest using impoverished point-light biological motion stimuli.  Although in such a display only a few moving dots are visible, by the age of 5 years children without a history of neurological disorders reach a ceiling level for recognition of a noncamouflaged point-light figures (Pavlova, Kr geloh-Mann, Sokolov, & Birbaumer, 2001).  On the other hand, deficits in higher cognitive functions affects interpretation of point-light displays very little: Adolescents with impairments in high-level symbolic processing need only very brief exposure to recognize human figures in point-light displays (Moore, Hobson, & Anderson, 1995).  In the present study, by using a simultaneous masking paradigm, we psychophysically examined the susceptibility of the visual system to distortions caused by camouflaging biological motion.  The mature visual system robustly tolerate such distortions (e. g. , Neri, Morrone, & Burr, 1998; Pavlova & Sokolov, 2000).  We hypothesize that if preterms with parieto-occipital PVL have specific perceptual deficits, their sensitivity to a point-light walker embedded in a moving-dot mask would be lower than in fullterm controls.  Moreover, if these deficits relate to the brain damage, the detection by preterms with PVL would be significantly worse than by preterms without brain lesions.  We also examined whether even mild periventricular bilateral damage of the functionally relevant brain regions (mild parietooccipital PVL) lead to a reduction of sensitivity.  Method Participants.  Participants were 13 patients (aged 14-16 yrs) born preterm at 27-33 weeks of gestation.  On the basis of analysis of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), they were assigned to the groups with mild bilateral PVL (n = 8) and with severe PVL over the parieto-occipital region (n = 5).  Fullterms and preterms without PVL (8 in each group) matched the patients for age, gender, and parental occupational status served as a control.  From all participants, T2weighted images (35 axial slices, TR = 4800 ms, TE = 85 ms, 4mm slice thickness) were obtained using a Siemens Vision scanner (see Figure 1).  For quantification of the damage extent, the volume of gliosis and the dilatation of the ventricles were taken into account.  All participants have normal or corrected-to-normal vision.  All participants attended the mainstream school, except three preterms with severe PVL who attended a special school due to considerable motor disorders.  The study complied with the requirements of local ethical committee.  Stimuli.  Two types of stimuli were used.  One of them represented an 11-dot point-light walker facing right and moving with no net translation.  A gait cycle was accomplished in 40 frames with frame duration of 36 ms.  This resulted in walking speed of about 42 complete cycles per minute.  A walker subtended a visual angle of 4. 0 in height and 2. 8 in width at the most extended point of a gait cycle.  Forty-four moving dots that corresponded to spatially scrambled points on the joints of a walker were added as a mask.  Thus, the mask shared the same parameters of motion as the canonical point-light figure.  The number of moving dots in
