IMPROVED UNSCENTED KALMAN SMOOTHING FOR STOCK VOLATILITY ESTIMATION
 Abstract.  We introduce a novel approximate inference algorithm for non-linear dynamical systems.  The algorithm is based upon expectation propagation and Gaussian quadrature.  The first forward pass is strongly related to the unscented Kalman filter.  It improves upon unscented Kalman filtering by only making Gaussian approximations in the latent and not in the observation space.  Smoothed estimates can be found without inverting latent space dynamics and can be improved by iteration.  Multiple forward and backward passes make it possible to improve local approximations and make them as consistent as possible.  We demonstrate the validity of the approach with an interesting inference problem in stochastic stock volatility models.  The traditional unscented Kalman filter is ill suited for this problem: it can be proven that the traditional filter effectively never updates prior beliefs.  The novel algorithm gives good results and improves with iteration.  INFERENCE IN STOCHASTIC VOLATILITY MODELS In 1973, Black, Scholes and Merton [1, 7] reasoned that under certain idealized market assumptions the prices of stocks and derivatives on those stocks are coupled.  A derivative is a financial product whose pay-o# is determined by the price of another asset.  A European call option for instance entitles the holder the right to buy a certain stock for a specific price, the strike price, at a specific moment in the future, the maturity time.  The effective pay-o# at maturity time is the difference between the stock price and the strike price if the former exceeds the latter, and zero otherwise.  If all the market assumptions from [1, 7] hold, the price of such an option is a deterministic function of the current price of the underlying stock, the stock's volatility, the risk-free interest rate, the strike price and the maturity time of the option.  Any other price allows traders to sell over priced and buy under priced assets and make a risk-free profit.  One of the crucial assumptions is that the underlying stock S follows a geometric Brownian motion dS S = dt + p V dz.  (1) In (1) dz is a Brownian motion, is a drift and p V is the volatility.  The latter two are constant or a deterministic function of time.  It is mainly the assumption of constant volatility that does not seem to hold in practice.  Equation (1) implies that daily log returns are normally distributed with constant mean and standard deviation.  What is observed for most stocks is that this standard deviation (the volatility) is not constant, but is auto-correlated and mean reverting.  Also the returns do not appear to come from a normal distribution but from a distribution with heavier tails.  These observations have led many researchers to formulate stochastic volatility models; models where the volatility itself follows an (unobserved) stochastic process.  In our experiments we will use a discrete time model that is inspired by the model from [3].  We denote the log returns with y t = log S t S t- 1 , where t ranges over exchange closing times.  As mentioned previously, if the volatility would be constant, the y t 's would be identically, independently and normally distributed.  We keep the mean of this distribution fixed at , but treat the volatility as a random variable itself.  We define x t to be the log of the volatility at time t.  It follows an AR process with a base level l to which it reverts with rate a.  The complete model reads x t = a(x t- 1 - l) + l + # t , # t # N (0, q), (2) y t = e x t # t + , # t # N (0, 1) .  (3) In the above N (m, v) denotes the Gaussian probability distribution with mean m and variance v.  All disturbances # t and # t are assumed to be independently drawn.  At t = 1, x 1 # N (m 1 , v 1 ).  Figure 1 shows an artificial dataset generated from this model.  The latent state dynamics are linear and Gaussian, but the observation model is non-linear.  As a result exact inference of filtered and smoothed posteriors, p(x t 
