Artificial Intelligence and Simulation of Behaviour,
 Abstract.  Vision consists of a multiplicity of tasks, of which object identification is only one.  We in the computer vision community have concentrated our efforts on object identification, and have thereby ensured that the formulation of the problem of vision provides methods which are not of general utility for vision.  Ironically, one consequence of this is that computer vision may not even be of use for object identification.  An analysis of why computer vision has become synonymous with object identification is presented.  The implications of this analysis for object identification and for interpreting neurophysiological evidence in terms of `feature detectors' are presented.  A formulation of the problem of vision in terms of spatiotemporal characteristics is proposed.  1 Object Identification in Human and Computer Vision The hardest part of any scientific investigation is not solving a particular problem, but formulating questions that focus attention on important aspects of the phenomena under investigation.  This paper attempts to step back from conventional formulations of the `problem of vision' by making explicit the unspoken assumptions upon which conventional formulations of the problem are based.  Historically, the primary goal of computer vision has been to identify objects.  One of the most influential books [1] on computer vision states in its preface: ``Computer vision is the construction of explicit, meaningful descriptions of physical objects from images. " Ballard and Brown, page xiii, 1982[1].  There is no hint here that computer vision may consist of more than object identification 1 .  And, from a psychophysiological perspective: ``The brain's task then, is to extract the constant, invariant features of objects from the perpetually changing flood of information it receives from them. " Zeki, page 43, 1992[2].  (Italics added).  ``The goal of vision is to inform us of the identity of objects in view and their spatial positions", Cavanagh, page 261, 1989[3].  (Italics added).  The cited texts are more general than these quotes might suggest, but these quotes demonstrate a prevalent view of the role of both human and computer vision.  More recently there has been a move away from traditional formulations of the problem of vision [4, 5].  These approaches, whilst commendable in many respects, do not make explicit the central role of the notion of `object'.  In Ballard's [4] excellent account of the advantages of animate vision there is no reference made as to why objects might be a useful way to represent the visual world, nor why the particular representations of objects used (colour histograms) might be formed by an animate vision system.  Formulations of the problem of computer vision in terms of objects may have arisen because the most obvious concomitant of vision in humans is their ability to identify objects.  However, most of human and animal vision has little to do with identifying objects.  More typically, vision is used to guide limbs, to track motion, to detect changes in motion/lighting/colour/depth, to estimate relative depths of surfaces using parallax/stereo/motion/texture.  Whilst some of these tasks may require the detection of objects, none of these tasks requires that those objects be recognised or identified.  Moreover, these tasks involve computation of quantities (such as position, depth, velocity, colour, gradient) which are not necessarily required in order to compute the identity of an object.  1 I use the term `object identification' instead of the more usual `object recognition' because I utilise a distinction between recognition (e. g.  familiarity with an object) and identification (i. e.  classifying or naming an object).  It is tempting to use easily quantifiable tasks, such as object identification, in order to compare the performance of a seeing machine to that of a human.  A machine that can identify objects provides a tangible demonstration that it can do what humans do.  It is tempting to suppose that if a machine can identify objects then it can `see' as humans do.  However, the fact that humans can identify objects does not imply that this is the only task humans use vision for; and a demonstration that both humans and machines can identify objects is not a demonstration that a machine can `see' in the sense normally associated with seeing humans.  It is less easy to measure how well a human uses vision to aid walking/climbing/reaching/grasping, even though there is ample evidence that vision is essential for these tasks.  The conventional formulation of the problem of object recognition implies that objects consist of well defined features, and that objects can be identified by first extracting these features and then matching them to stored representations.  If we accept that vision includes object identification, but that the visual mechanisms we posses evolved in order to perform many other visual tasks, then the conventional formulation of the problem of vision appears not only simplistic, but also peculiarly biased toward a task (object identification) that is an important, but relatively small part of, what vision is for.  It seems likely that our sophisticated object recognition ability is a relatively recent evolutionary development.  Like most evolutionary innovations the ability to recognise objects was probably synthesized from pre-existing computational mechanisms.  Consequently, if a mechanism is useful for object identification only, then it is unlikely that it forms a part of the solution implemented by human visual systems.  Conversely, if a mechanism subserves other forms of visually guided behaviour and object recognition then it is likely that that mechanism forms part of the human visual system.  Within computer vision we pride ourselves on the correspondence between our methods and the computational mechanisms observed in the human visual system.  However, if we wish to achieve object recognition by modelling the computational properties of the human visual system then we could do so by paying more attention to the types of tasks for which our visual systems evolved to deal with.
