Positive Definite Rational Kernels
 Abstract.  Kernel methods are widely used in statistical learning techniques.  We recently introduced a general kernel framework based on weighted transducers or rational relations, rational kernels, to extend kernel methods to the analysis of variable-length sequences or more generally weighted automata.  These kernels are ecient to compute and have been successfully used in applications such as spoken-dialog classi#cation.  Not all rational kernels are positive definite and symmetric (PDS) however, a sucient property for guaranteeing the convergence of discriminant classification algorithms such as Support Vector Machines.  We present several theoretical results related to PDS rational kernels.  We show in particular that under some conditions these kernels are closed under sum, product, or Kleene-closure and give a general method for constructing a PDS rational kernel from an arbitrary transducer defined on some non-idempotent semirings.  We also show that some commonly used string kernels or similarity measures such as the edit-distance, the convolution kernels of Haussler, and some string kernels used in the context of computational biology are specific instances of rational kernels.  Our results include the proof that the edit-distance over a non-trivial alphabet is not negative definite, which, to the best of our knowledge, was never stated or proved before.  1 Motivation Many classification algorithms were originally designed for fixed-length vectors.  Recent applications in text and speech processing and computational biology require however the analysis of variable-length sequences and even more generally weighted automata.  Indeed, the output of a large-vocabulary speech recognizer for a particular input speech utterance, or that of a complex information extraction system combining several information sources for a specific input query, is typically a weighted automaton compactly representing a large set of alternative sequences.  The weights assigned by the system to each sequence are used to rank different alternatives according to the models the system is based on.  The error rate of such complex systems is still too high in many tasks to rely only on their one-best output, thus it is preferable instead to use the full output weighted automata which contain the correct result in most cases.  Kernel methods [13] are widely used in statistical learning techniques such as Support Vector Machines (SVMs) [2, 4, 14] due to their computational eciency in high-dimensional feature spaces.  Recently, a general kernel framework Semiring Set # # 0 1 Boolean f0; 1g _ ^ 0 1 Probability R+ + # 0 1 Log R [f2 ; +1g # log + +1 0 Tropical R [f2 ; +1g min + +1 0 Table 1.  Semiring examples.  # log is defined by: x # log y = log(e x + e y ).  based on weighted transducers or rational relations, rational kernels, was introduced to extend kernel methods to the analysis of variable-length sequences or more generally weighted automata [3].  It was shown that there are general and ecient algorithms for computing rational kernels.  Rational kernels have been successfully used for applications such as spoken-dialog classification.  Not all rational kernels are positive definite and symmetric (PDS), or equivalently verify the Mercer condition [1], a condition that guarantees the convergence of discriminant classification algorithms such as SVMs.  This motivates the study undertaken in this paper.  We present several theoretical results related to PDS rational kernels.  In particular, we show that under some conditions these kernels are closed under sum, product, or Kleene-closure and give a general method for constructing a PDS rational kernel from an arbitrary transducer defined on some non-idempotent semirings.  We also study the relationship between rational kernels and some commonly used string kernels or similarity measures such as the edit-distance, the convolution kernels of Haussler [6], and some string kernels used in the context of computational biology [8].  We show that these kernels are all specific instances of rational kernels.  In each case, we explicitly describe the corresponding weighted transducer.  These transducers are often simple and ecient for computing kernels.  Their diagram often provides more insight into the definition of kernels and can guide the design of new kernels.  Our results also include the proof of the fact that the edit-distance over a non-trivial alphabet is not negative definite, which, to the best of our knowledge, was never stated or proved before.  2 Preliminaries In this section, we present the algebraic definitions and notation necessary to introduce rational kernels.  Definition 1 ([7]).  A system (K ; #; #; 0; 1) is a semiring if: (K ; #; 0) is a commutative monoid with identity element 0; (K ; #; 1) is a monoid with identity element 1; # distributes over #; and 0 is an annihilator for #: for all a 2 K ; a # 0 = 0 # a = 0.  Thus, a semiring is a ring that may lack negation.  Table 1 lists some familiar semirings.  Definition 2.  A weighted finite-state transducer T over a semiring K is an 8-tuple T = (#;
