FINAL REPORT Colorado Advanced Software Institute MODELING STUDENT PILOTS FOR INTELLIGENT TRAINING
 In 1995, the FAA and NASA formed a consortium to advance the concept of a small aircraft transportation system.  The consortium's primary focus is the Advanced General Aviation Transport Experiments (AGATE).  The goal of this government-industry-university partnership is to develop technologies for safety, affordability, and ease of use for single pilot, single engine, near all weather transportation aircraft and related training, airspace, and ground infrastructure systems.  Targeted training technologies include cockpit-based onboard training systems, computer-based training desktop devices, simulation, virtual environment systems, and expert systems.  It is in this field of advanced training concepts for General Aviation (GA) pilots that this research is targeted.  Teaching a person to fly a GA airplane is a complex and time consuming task.  The approach of using one-on-one training with an instructor in the co-pilot's seat of a real airplane has been used for decades.  While real aircraft offer the ultimate in training realism, they are expensive to operate and maintain, and safety considerations restrict the tasks that can be practiced.  Augmenting instructor training in a real airplane with computer simulation promises to reduce training costs and allow instruction in emergencies in a forgiving environment Today, low end flight training devices (FTDs) are sometimes employed as self paced instruction for specific tasks.  For the GA marketplace these devices are classified as part task trainers (navigation, reading basic flight instruments, etc. ).  They do not have the aircraft system comprehensiveness, accuracy, nor the simulated reality of the full flight simulators used by major airlines and the military.  On the other hand, FTDs don't have the high development and operation cost of full flight simulators.  With modern advances in computer graphics, microcomputer processing power, and electro-mechanical control loading, it is possible to build FTDs that approach the capabilities of full flight simulators at a significantly reduced price.  For this CASI research project, we investigated augmenting FTD simulation capabilities with adaptive techniques that model the abilities of each student pilot.  Ultimately the ability to predict each student's capabilities and to adapt the simulation according to their strengths and weaknesses will reduce the number of human instructor hours required and allow for better training over a shorter period of time.  Our first thrust at this broad problem was to develop a system that builds dynamic models of a student's current flying ability and predicts their trajectory in FTD simulations.
