Associative Memory in Networks of Spiking Neurons
 Abstract Here we develop and investigate a computational model of a network of cortical neurons on the base of biophysically well constrained and tested two-compartmental neurons developed by Pinsky and Rinzel [Pinsky and Rinzel, 1994].  To study associative memory we connect a pool of cells by a structured connectivity matrix.  The connection weights are shaped by simple Hebbian coincidence learning using a set of spatially sparse patterns.  We study the neuronal activity processes following an external stimulation of a stored memory.  In two series of simulation experiments we explore the effect of different classes of external input, tonic and flashed stimulation: With tonic stimulation the addressed memory is attractor of the network dynamics.  The memory is displayed rhythmically, coded by phase locked bursts or regular spikes.  The participating neurons have rhythmic activity in the gamma-frequency range (30-80 Hz).  If the input is switched from one memory to another, the network activity can follow this change within one or two gamma cycles.  Unlike similar models in the literataure, we studied the range of high memory capacity (in the order of 0. 1 bit/synapse), comparable to optimally tuned formal associative networks.  We explored the robustness of efficient retrieval varying the memory load, the excitation/inhibition parameters, and background activity.  A stimulation pulse applied to the identical simulation network can push away ongoing network activity and trigger a phase-locked association event within one gamma period.  Unlike with tonic stimulation, the memories are not attractors: After one association process the network activity moves to other states.  Applying in close succession pulses addressing different memories one can switch through the space of memory patterns.  The readout speed can be increased up to the point where in every gamma cycle another pattern is displayed.  With pulsed stimulation bursts become relevant for coding, their occurence can be used to discriminate retrieval processes from background activity.
