Inference of Gene Regulatory Networks from Large Scale Gene Expression Data
 Abstract With the advent of the age of genomics, an increasing number of genes have been identified and their functions documented.  However, not as much is known of specific regulatory relations among genes (e. g.  gene A up-regulates gene B).  At the same time, there is an increasing number of large-scale gene expression datasets, in which the mRNA transcript levels of tens of thousands of genes are measured at a number of time points, or under a number of different conditions.  A number of studies have proposed to find gene regulatory networks from such datasets.  Our method is a modification of the continuous-time neural network method of Wahde & Hertz [25, 26].  The genetic algorithm used to update weights was replaced with Levenberg-Marquardt optimization.  We tested our method on artificial data as well as Spellman's yeast cell cycle data [22].  Results indicated that this method was able to detect salient regulatory relations between genes.  Abstract Avec l'arrivee de la genomique, un nombre croissant de gnes ont ete identifies et leurs fonctions documentees.  Toutefois, les relations regulatoires specifiques (par exemple, l'e#et regulatoire du gne A sur le gne B) sont moins bien connues.  En m^eme temps, nous disposons d'une quantite de donnees genetique `a grande echelle de plus en plus vaste, ou nous pouvons trouver l'evolution de dizaines de milliers de g`enes echantillonnes `a plusieurs instants ou sous di#erentes conditions.  Des etudes ont proposes d'inferer des reseaux regulatoires genetiques `a partir de ces donnees.  Notre methode est une modification des reseaux neuronaux a temps continu de Wahde et Hertz [25, 26].  L'algorithme genetique utilise pour la mise `a jours des poids est remplace par la methode Levenberg-Marquardt.  Nous avons teste notre methode avec des donnees artificielles ainsi que les donnes de cycle de levure de Spellman.  Nos resultats indiquent que cette methode est capable de detecter les relations regulatoires saillantes entre les gnes.
