Wild-Type and Met-65 f Leu Variants of Human Cystatin A Are Functionally and Structurally Identical
 ABSTRACT: The solution structure of an N-terminally truncated and mutant form (M65L 2-98 ) of the human cysteine protease inhibitor cystatin A has been reported that reveals extensive structural differences when compared to the previously published structure of full-length wild-type (WT) cystatin A.  On the basis of the M65L 2-98 structure, a model of the inhibitory mechanism of cystatin A was proposed wherein specific interactions between the N- and C-terminal regions of cystatin A are invoked as critical determinants of protease binding.  To test this model and to account for the reported differences between the two structures, we undertook additional structural and mechanistic analyses of WT and mutant forms of human cystatin A.  These show that modification at the C-terminus of cystatin A by the addition of nine amino acids has no effect upon the affinity of papain inhibition (KD ) 0. 18 ( 0. 02 pM) and the consequences of such modification are not propagated to other parts of the structure.  These findings indicate that perturbation of the C-terminus can be achieved without any measurable effect on the N-terminus or the proteinase binding loops.  In addition, introduction of the methionine-65 f leucine substitution into cystatin A that retains the N-terminal methionine (M65L 1-98 ) has no significant effect upon papain binding (KD ) 0. 34 ( 0. 02 pM).  Analyses of the structures of WT and M65L 1-98 using 1 H NMR chemical shifts and residual dipolar couplings in a partially aligning medium do not reveal any evidence of significant differences between the two inhibitors.  Many of the differences between the published structures correspond to major violations by M65L 2-98 of the WT constraints list, notably in relation to the position of the N-terminal region of the inhibitor, one of three structural motifs indicated by crystallographic studies to be involved in protease binding by cystatins.  In the WT structure, and consistent with the crystallographic data, this region is positioned adjacent to another inhibitory motif (the first binding loop), whereas in M65L 2-98 there is no proximity of these two motifs.  As the NMR data for both WT9C and M65L 1-98 are wholly consistent with the published structure of WT cystatin A and incompatible with that of M65L 2-98 ,we conclude that the former represents the most reliable structural model of this protease inhibitor.  Human cystatin A, also named stefin A, is a member of the cystatin superfamily of cysteine proteinase inhibitors, whose main function is to protect cells from unwanted proteolysis, and is involved in the control mechanism responsible for protein breakdown (1).  Members of the superfamily are potent competitive inhibitors of papain-like cysteine proteases and have been classified into three subfamilies, based on sequence identity, number of disulfide bonds, and the molecular mass of the proteins (2).  Cystatin A is classified as a type I inhibitor, contains 98 amino acid residues, has a molecular mass of approximately 11 kDa, and contains no disulfides or carbohydrates.  It is believed to provide an important protective function against infective agents (2) and has proposed roles in many pathological states including cardiovascular disease and cancer (3-7).  Mutations in the gene encoding cystatin B, a related type I inhibitor (53% amino acid identity with cystatin A), cause a heritable form of progressive myoclonus epilepsy (8).  While most such mutations are associated with reduced transcription or aberrant splicing of cystatin B RNA (9), a single G f C transversion, resulting in the replacement of Gly-4 by arginine, is also sufficient to cause disease (10).  As this glycine residue is an important determinant of protease inhibition by cystatin A (11), and absolutely conserved in all cystatins, it appears that unregulated activity of a papainlike cysteine protease is responsible for this neurodegenerative disorder.  The structure of cystatin B bound to papain has been determined by X-ray crystallography and reveals that three distinct sequence motifs of type I cystatins contribute to protease binding and inhibition (12).  In the complex, a socalled "tripartite wedge" is formed from the amino terminus (residues Met-1 to Pro-6) and two surface loops (Gln-
