Bayesian Information Extraction Network
 Abstract Dynamic Bayesian networks (DBNs) offer an elegant way to integrate various aspects of language in one model.  Many existing algorithms developed for learning and inference in DBNs are applicable to probabilistic language modeling.  To demonstrate the potential of DBNs for natural language processing, we employ a DBN in an information extraction task.  We show how to assemble wealth of emerging linguistic instruments for shallow parsing, syntactic and semantic tagging, morphological decomposition, named entity recognition etc.  in order to incrementally build a robust information extraction system.  Our method outperforms previously published results on an established benchmark domain.  1 Information Extraction Information extraction (IE) is the task of filling in template information from previously unseen text which belongs to a pre-defined domain.  The resulting database is suited for formal queries and filtering.  IE systems generally work by detecting patterns in the text that help identify significant information.  Researchers have shown [Freitag and McCallum, 1999; Ray and Craven, 2001] that a probabilistic approach allows the construction of robust and well-performing systems.  However, the existing probabilistic systems are generally based on Hidden Markov Models (HMMs).  Due to this relatively impoverished representation, they are unable to take advantage of the wide array of linguistic information used by many non-probabilistic IE systems.  In addition, existing HMM-based systems model each target category separately, failing to capture relational information, such as typical target order, or the fact that each element only belongs to a single category.  This paper shows how to incorporate a wide array of knowledge into a probabilistic IE system, based on dynamic Bayesian networks (DBN)---a rich probabilistic representation that generalizes HMMs.  Let us illustrate IE by describing seminar announcements which got established as one of the most popular benchmark domains in the field [Califf and Mooney, 1999; Freitag and McCallum, 1999; Soderland, 1999; Roth and Yih, 2001; Ciravegna, 2001] .  People receive dozens of seminar announcements weekly and need to manually extract information and paste it into personal organizers.  The goal of an IE system is to automatically identify target fields such as location and topic of a seminar, date and starting time, ending time and speaker.  Announcements come in many formats, but usually follow some pattern.  We often find a header with a gist in the form "PostedBy:
