Example Based Image Analysis and Synthesis
 Abstract Image analysis and graphics synthesis can be achieved with learning techniques using directly image examples without physically-based, 3D models.  We describe here novel techniques for the analysis and the synthesis of new grey-level (and color) images.  With the first technique, ffl the mapping from novel images to a vector of "pose" and "expression" parameters can be learned from a small set of example images using a function approximation technique that we call an analysis network; ffl the inverse mapping from input "pose" and "expression" parameters to output grey-level images can be synthesized from a small set of example images and used to produce new images under real-time control using a similar learning network, called in this case a synthesis network.  This technique relies on (i) using a correspondence algorithm that matches corresponding pixels among pairs of grey-level images and effectively "vectorizes" them, and (ii) exploiting a class of multidimensional interpolation networks -- Regularization Networks -- that approximate the nonlinear mapping between the vector input and the vector output.  We also describe a second technique for analysis and synthesis of images, which can be formulated within the same theoretical framework and discuss the somewhat different implementation tradeoffs in terms of memory and computation.  As a third contribution, we introduce an approach for generating novel grey-level images from a single example image by learning the desired transformation from prototypical examples.  The three techniques described here have several applications in computer graphics, special effects, interactive multimedia and object recognition systems.  The analysis network can be regarded as a passive and trainable universal interface, that is a control device which may be used as a generalized computer mouse, instead of "gloves", "body suits" and joy sticks.  The synthesis network is an unconventional and novel approach to computer graphics.  The techniques described here can be used for very low bandwidth teleconferencing and interactive simulations.
