GABAA AND GABAB RECEPTORS
 Abstract Since the introduction of the alpha function by Rall in 1967 [12], there has been signi#cant progress in our understanding of the molecular events underlying synaptic transmission.  Particular receptor types have been identified and their activation kinetics characterized.  It is now possible to develop models of these receptors, using a formalism similar to that introduced by Hodgkin and Huxley [9].  In this paper, we present recently-introduced models obtained by simplifying more detailed biophysical models of postsynaptic receptors [7].  The simplified models are fully compatible with the Hodgkin-Huxley formalism, are very e#cient to simulate, and account for important phenomena such as synaptic summation and desensitization.  These models should be useful in large-scale network simulations.  Fast kinetic models In a previous paper [7], we developed a model of synaptic transmission that incorporated the kinetics of voltage-dependentchannels, the kinetics of exocytosis of neurotransmitter in the synapse, diffusion of the neurotransmitter and binding to postsynaptic receptors, and finally the kinetics of activation of these receptors.  It was shown that introducing simplifying assumptions leads to much simpler kinetic models for a variety of receptor types, including fast transmission and neuromodulation.  Synaptic receptors activate or deactivate ion channels located in the postsynaptic cell.  In the case of \fast" synaptic transmission, the receptor and the channel are part of the same protein complex.  In these so-called ionotropic receptors, the ligand is a neurotransmitter and its binding to the complex leads to the opening of the associated ionophore.  Ionotropic receptors include the glutamate AMPA/kainate and NMDAtypes, the fast GABAergic receptors 9 (GABAA ) and nicotinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptors.  However, for a variety of neurotransmitters, the channel is independent of the receptor and the gating occurs through the production of an intracellular second messenger.  These so-called metabotropic receptors include the slow GABAergic type (GABAB ), muscarinic ACh receptors, noradrenergic receptors, serotonergic receptors, as well as other types.  Wehave considered relatively detailed kinetic schemes for both ionotropic and metabotropic types of synaptic receptors.  For both types, we derived simple kinetic schemes that account for most of their properties.  The simplified models assume that the time course of the ligand, L, occurs as a pulse, triggered by the presynaptic spike.  The ligand then gates the opening of a ion channel, according to the following possible schemes: O C + L 1 r 1 r 2 r 1 r 2 C + L 1 C 2 r r 3 4 r r 5 6 O D r 1 r 2 C + L 1 r 3 r 4 r 5 O D 6 r (1) (2) (3) In these schemes, C 1 and C 2 represent the closed states of the channel, O is the open state, D represents the desensitized state and r 1 . . . r 6 are the associated rate constants.  The synaptic current I syn is obtained from the relation: I syn =fig syn m (V, E syn ) where # g syn is the maximal synaptic conductance, m is the fraction of channels in open state, V is the postsynaptic membrane potential and E syn is the reversal potential.  The time course of the ligand L and the kinetic constants distinguish ionotropic from metabotropic receptors.  In the former, L represents the neurotransmitter and occurs as a pulse of 1 mM amplitude and 1 ms duration, as estimated from patch-clamp recordings [4].  In the latter, L is a second messenger and occurs as a pulse of 1 #M amplitude and 50-100 ms duration.  These values were estimated from kinetic data of second-messenger transduction.  The computational advantage of simple schemes such as (1-2) is that the time course of the current can be obtained analytically [6, 7].  The analytic expressions make these models extremely powerful because they do not require differential equations to be solved numerically (see ref.  [7] for more details).  Another advantage is that it is easy to fit model to experimental data, as described in the next section.
