Unsupervised Learning of Visual Structure
 acquisition of spatially localized features that can support systematic treatment of structured objects [1].  1 A paradox and some ways of resolving it It is logically impossible to form a principled structural description of a visual scene without prior knowledge of related scenes.  Adapting an observation made by R.  A.  Fisher, such knowledge must, in the first instance, be statistical.  Several recent studies indeed showed that subjects are capable of unsupervised acquisition of statistical regularities (e. g. , conditional probabilities of constituents) that can support structural interpretation of novel scenes composed of a few simple objects [2, 3].  Theoretical understanding of unsupervised statistical learning is, however, hindered by a paradox perceived as "monstrous and unmeaning" already in the Socratic epistemology: statistics can only be computed over a set of candidate primitive descriptors if these are identified in advance, yet the identification of the candidates requires prior statistical data (cf.  [4]).  1 Figure 1 illustrates the paradox at hand in the context of scene interpretation.  To decide whether the image on the left is better seen as containing horses (and riders) rather than centaurs requires tracking the representational utility of horse over a sequence of images.  But for that one must have already acquired the notion of horse --- an undertaking that we aimed to alleviate in the first place, by running statistics over multiple stimuli.  In what follows, we describe a way of breaking out of this vicious circle, suggested by computational and neurobiological considerations.  Fig.  1.  An intuitive illustration of the fundamental problem of unsupervised discovery of the structural units best suited for describing a visual scene (cf.  Left).  Is the being in the forefront of this picture integral or composite? The visual system of the Native Americans, who in their first encounter reportedly perceived mounted Spaniards as centaur-like creatures (cf.  [5], p. 127), presumably acted on a principle that prescribes an integral interpretation, in the absence of evidence to the contrary.  A sophisticated visual system should perceive such evidence in the appearance of certain candidate units in multiple contexts (cf.  Middle, where the conquistadors are seen dismounted).  Units should not have to appear in isolation (Right) to be seen as independent.  1. 1 Computational considerations The choice of primitives or features in terms of which composite objects and their structure are to be described is the central issue at the intersection of high-level vision and computational learning theory.  Studies of unsupervised feature extraction (see e. g.  [6] for a review) typically concentrate on the need for supporting recognition, that is, telling objects apart.  Here, we are concerned with the complementary need --- seeking to capture commonalities between objects --which stems from the coupled constraints of making explicit object structure, as per the principle of systematicity [1], and maintaining representational economy, as per the Minimum Description Length (MDL) principle [7].  One biologically relevant representational framework that aims for systematicity while observing parsimony is the Chorus of Fragments (CoF [8, 1]).  In the CoF model, the graded responses of "what+where" cells [9, 10] coarsely tuned both to shape and to location form a distributed representation of stimulus structure.  In this paper, we describe a method for unsupervised acquisition of "what+where" receptive fields from examples.
