Viewpoint generalization in face recognition: The role of category-specific processes
 Abstract The statistical structure of a class of objects such as human faces can be exploited to recognize familiar faces from novel viewpoints and under variable illumination conditions.  We present computational and psychophysical data concerning the extent to which class-based learning transfers or generalizes within the class of faces.  We first examine the computational prerequisite for generalization across views of novel faces, namely, the similarity of different faces to each other.  We next describe two computational models which exploit the similarity structure of the class of faces.  The performance of these models constrains hypotheses about the nature of face representation in human vision, and supports the notion that human face processing operates in a class-based fashion.  Finally, we relate the computational data to well-established findings in the human memory literature concerning the relationship between the typicality and recognizability of faces.  Viewpoint generalization in face recognition: The role of category-specific processes Computational theories of visual recognition that postulate image-based, view-dependent object representations have been gaining both computational and psychophysical support in recent years.  These provide an alternative to theoretical perspectives on object representation that assume three-dimensional shape reconstructions (Ullman, 1996; Edelman, 1997).  This theoretical development has created a certain tension within the psychological literature on object and face recognition.  Specifically, although psychologists consistently find that the human visual system is capable of making sense of an image of an object, even when the object is encountered under novel viewing conditions, it is not immediately clear how a view-based representation can support this ability: ``What can possibly be left if no parts can be found, if no depth relations can be determined .  .  .  ? Quite likely, the only remaining process is the simplest of all pattern operations: viewpoint-specific recognition.  This is, undeniably, a modern code word for 2-D templates.  As would be expected for such a topdown process, it only works for familiar objects, seen from familiar viewpoints. " (Cavanagh, 1995).  We attempt to ease the tensions between theory and experiments by showing (1) that given prior experience with objects of similar shape, multiple-view models can be made to exhibit a considerable degree of generalization, both to novel views and to novel objects, and (2) that such models are relevant for understanding human generalization performance on novel stimuli, which, likewise, depends on prior exposure to objects that belong to same shape
