A Productive, Systematic Framework for the Representation of Visual Structure
 Abstract We describe a unified framework for the understanding of structure representation in primate vision.  A model derived from this framework is shown to be effectively systematic in that it has the ability to interpret and associate together objects that are related through a rearrangement of common "middle-scale" parts, represented as image fragments.  The model addresses the same concerns as previous work on compositional representation through the use of what+where receptive fields and attentional gain modulation.  It does not require prior exposure to the individual parts, and avoids the need for abstract symbolic binding.  1 The problem of structure representation The focus of theoretical discussion in visual object processing has recently started to shift from problems of recognition and categorization to the representation of object structure.  Although view- or appearance-based solutions for these problems proved effective on a variety of object classes [1], the "holistic" nature of this approach -- the lack of explicit representation of relational structure -- limits its appeal as a general framework for visual representation [2].  The main challenges in the processing of structure are productivity and systematicity, two traits commonly attributed to human cognition.  A visual system is productive if it is openended, that is, if it can deal effectively with a potentially infinite set of objects.  A visual representation is systematic if a well-defined change in the spatial configuration of the object (e. g. , swapping top and bottom parts) causes a principled change in the representation (e. g. , the interchange of the representations of top and bottom parts [3, 2]).  A solution commonly offered to the twin problems of productivity and systematicity is compositional representation, in which symbols standing for generic parts drawn from a small repertoire are bound together by categorical symbolically coded relations [4].  2 The Chorus of Fragments In visual representation, the need for symbolic binding may be alleviated by using location in the visual field in lieu of the abstract frame that encodes object structure.  Intuitively, the constituents of the object are then bound to each other by virtue of residing in their proper places in the visual field; this can be thought of as a pegboard, whose spatial structure supports the arrangement of parts suspended from its pegs.  This scheme exhibits shallow compositionality, which can be enhanced by allowing the "pegboard" mechanism to operate at different spatial scales, yielding effective systematicity across levels of resolution.  Coarse coding the constituents (e. g. , representing each object fragment in terms of its similarities to some basis shapes) will render the scheme productive.  We call this approach to the representation of structure the Chorus of Fragments (CoF; [5]).
