Running head: FACE RECOGNITION OVER VIEW CHANGE Stimulus-specific effects in face recognition over changes in viewpoint
 Abstract Individual faces vary considerably in both the quality and quantity of the information they contain for recognition and for viewpoint generalization.  In the present study, we assessed the typicality, recognizability, and viewpoint generalizability of individual faces using data from both human observers and from a computational model of face recognition across viewpoint change.  The two-stage computational model incorporated a viewpoint alignment operation and a recognition-by-interpolation operation.  An interesting aspect of this particular model is that the effects of typicality it predicts at the alignment and recognition stages dissociate, such that face typicality is beneficial for the success of the alignment process, but is adverse for the success of the recognition process.  We applied a factor analysis to the covariance data for the human- and model-derived face measures across the different viewpoints and found two axes that appeared consistently across all viewpoints.  Projection scores for individual faces on these axes (i. e. , the extent to which a face's "performance profile" matched the pattern of human- and model-derived scores on that axis), correlated across viewpoint changes to a much higher degree than did the raw recognizability scores of the faces.  These results suggest that the stimulus information captured in the model measures may underlie distinct and dissociable aspects of the recognizability of individual faces across viewpoint change.  Stimulus-specific effects in face recognition over changes in viewpoint To recognize a face from a novel view, we must be able to encode something unique about the face that distinguishes it from all other faces in the world and further must be able to access this unique information from the novel view.  Studying the representations and processes that humans use to accomplish this task is difficult due to the complexity of the visual information observers experience in viewing faces from different viewpoints and due to the multitude of ways that such information can be encoded and represented.  We believe that to study human representations of faces, we must first study human faces, both as individuals and as exemplars of a category of objects that share a common physical structure.  Our approach here is to combine human data on the recognizability and viewpoint generalizbality of individual faces with a computational model of the representations and processes required to perform this task.  The rationale behind this approach is that individual faces vary both in the quality and quantity of the "uniqueness" information they provide a human observer for the task of recognition.  Some faces are highly unique and distinct, while others are rather less so.  Not suprisingly, there is good evidence to indicate that faces judged by human observers to be unusual are more accurately recognized than faces judged to be typical (e. g. , Light, Kayra-Stuart, & Hollander, 1979).  Despite the well-known findings relating the typicality and recognizability of faces, less is known about the ways in which faces can be typical or unusual.  It seems reasonable, however, to suppose that when faces are considered distinctive, the information that makes them so can vary
