Bridging language with the rest of cognition: computational, algorithmic and neurobiological issues and methods
 Abstract The computational program for theoretical neuroscience initiated by Marr and Poggio (1977) calls for a study of biological information processing on several distinct levels of abstraction.  At each of these levels --- computational (defining the problems and considering possible solutions), algorithmic (specifying the sequence of operations leading to a solution) and implementational --- significant progress has been made in the understanding of cognition.  In the past three decades, computational principles have been discovered that are common to a wide range of functions in perception (vision, hearing, olfaction) and action (motor control).  More recently, these principles have been applied to the analysis of cognitive tasks that require dealing with structured information, such as visual scene understanding and analogical reasoning.  Insofar as language relies on cognition-general principles and mechanisms, it should be possible to capitalize on the recent advances in the computational study of cognition by extending its methods to linguistics.  The possibility of integrating linguistics into a unified science of cognition --- a desideratum put forward in many of the relevant disciplines --- depends on the degree to which common computational principles (Marr and Poggio, 1977) and brain mechanisms are shared by language and by the other cognitive functions.  To explore this possibility, we need to bring together ideas from several fields, which as yet have seen little intellectual cross-fertilization.  The first of these is cognitive linguistics (Langacker, 1987; Bernardez, 1999) --- a natural home discipline for the integration project, which consistently produces valuable insights into the psychology of language, yet is little concerned with algorithmic or implementational issues.  The second is computational linguistics (Jurafsky and Martin, 2000), including statistical natural language processing (Manning and Schutze, 1999) --- a field that examines the mathematical nature of language-related tasks and generates important applications, yet pays little attention to behavioral or neurobiological issues.  Lastly, there is the Marr-Poggio computational framework (Marr and Poggio, 1977), which is used across cognition and which spans all the relevant levels of analysis, but has not yet been extended to the study of language.  This chapter discusses some of the general computational principles that emerge as useful for understanding cognition, focusing on those that are likely to be especially relevant in dealing with structured knowledge.  It then brings these principles to bear on a theory of language that is rooted both in cognitive and in computational linguistics, and that views language as an incrementally learnable system of redundant, distributed representations akin to those found by neurobiologists in olfaction, audition, vision, and motor control.  1 Common principles of cognitive representation and processing The view that cognition hinges on the representation of knowledge by the brain is widely accepted in linguistics, psychology, neuroscience, and the philosophy of mind (Chomsky, 1957; Miller, 1962; Shepard, 1975; Marr, 1982; Gallistel, 1990; Cummins, 1996).  Most importantly, representations play a central role in those theories of mind/brain that construe cognition as computation defined over representational states (Baum, 2004).  1 A representational state in a cognitive system is characterized by its covariation with certain aspects of the relevant state of affairs in the world, and, crucially, by having counterfactually supported observable effects.  2 1. 1 How to garner empirical support for posited representations Whereas thirty years ago linguists were expected to prove that the representations they posit are psychologically real (Fodor et al. , 1974) by predicting and then demonstrating such effects, contemporary formal linguistics has, lamentably, given up on this requirement (Edelman and Christiansen, 2003).  Consider, for example, the following passage from an online introduction to a course in neurolinguistics: "We know already what isn't the right question: What is the psychological reality of linguistic entities and operations?" 3 As 1 Such states need not, and probably cannot, be wholly internal to the brain; cf.  "The primary function of perception is to keep our internal framework in good registration with that vast external memory, the external environment itself" (Reitman et al.
