Distributional Information and the Acquisition of Linguistic Categories: A Statistical Approach
 Abstract Distributional information, in the form of simple, locally computed statistics of an input corpus, provides a potential means of establishing initial syntactic categories (noun, verb, etc. ).  Finch and Chater (1991, 1992) clustered words hierarchically, according to the distribution of local contexts in which they appeared in large, written English corpora, obtaining clusters that corresponded well with the standard syntactic categories.  Here, a stronger demonstration of their method is provided, using `real' data, that to which children are exposed during category acquisition, taken from the childes corpus.  For 2\Delta5 million words of adult speech, clustering on syntactic and semantic bases was observed, with a high degree of clear differentiation between syntactic categories.  For child data, some noun and verb clusters emerged, with some evidence of other categories, but the data set was too small for reliable trends to emerge.  Some initial results investigating the possibility of classifying novel words using only the immediate context of a single instance are also presented.  These results demonstrate that statistical information may play an important role in the processes of early language acquisition.  Acquiring linguistic categories In acquiring language the child solves an enormously difficult problem: To uncover an exquisitely complex model of language structure from a corpus of observed language which is both extremely partial and riddled with false starts, slips of the tongue, and ungrammatical sentences.  One small, but crucially important, aspect of this problem is that of acquiring linguistic categories.  Unless linguistic categories are established, learning how those categories may be composed together to uncover the linguistic rules of the language appears to be impossible.  1 Experimental work was performed by MR, supervised by NC and SF, and supported by SERC studentship No.
