Confidence Judgements, Performance, and Practice, in Artificial Grammar Learning
 Abstract Artificial grammar learning is noted for the claim that subjects are unaware of their knowledge.  Chan (1992) and Dienes et al.  (in press) have demonstrated that subjects are unaware in the sense that they lack metaknowledge.  Dissociations between subjects' performance and their confidence in their decisions suggest that the learning mechanism may be in some sense encapsulated from the "confidence system".  Here we tested the alternative hypothesis that the confidence system is initially poorly calibrated, or does not know which aspects of the learning mechanism to attend to, by training and testing subjects over four weekly sessions.  On all four weeks we found a strong, near-perfect association between confidence and performance for trained subjects, but a dissociation for untrained control subjects.  We discuss possible explanations for these results, and previously observed dissociations.  Artificial grammar learning is notable for the controversial claim that subjects acquire knowledge which allows them to distinguish strings which follow the same rules as a set of previously memorised strings, from those which do not, but that they are not consciously aware of this knowledge (Reber, 1967, 1989).  However, measuring subjects' conscious knowledge is plagued with the problems of finding suitably sensitive, explicit tests, and of ensuring that the knowledge these explicit tests measure is the same as the knowledge subjects use to perform the classification (see Shanks and St.  John, 1995, and commentaries).  Chan (1992) and Dienes, Altmann, Kwan and Goode (in press) set issues of consciousness aside and focus instead on behaviour: Subjects' ability to make confidence judgements about their performance.  This tests metaknowledge, or "what subjects know about what they know".  Chan (1992) showed that subjects' confidence in their judgements was unrelated to the likelihood that those judgements were correct.  Similarly, Dienes et al.  (in press) showed that even when subjects thought that they were guessing, their performance was above chance (and untrained control) levels.  Chan (1992) and Dienes et al.  (in press) propose that the dissociation between confidence and accuracy is evidence that subjects lack meta-knowledge.  This suggests that the learning mechanism is to a certain extent encapsulated from the "confidence system", so that its inner workings (e. g.
