Reinforcement Learning Architectures
 Abstract Reinforcement learning is the learning of a mapping from situations to actions so as to maximize a scalar reward or reinforcement signal.  The learner is not told which action to take, as in most forms of learning, but instead must discover which actions yield the highest reward by trying them.  In the most interesting and challenging cases, actions aect not only the immediate reward, but also the next situation, and through that all subsequent rewards.  These two characteristics---trial-and-error search and delayed reward---are the two most important distinguishing features of reinforcement learning.  In this paper I present a brief overview of the development of reinforcement learning architectures over the past decade, including reinforcement-comparison, actor-critic, and Q-learning architectures.  Finally, I present Dyna, a class of architectures based on reinforcement learning but which go beyond trial-and-error learning to include a learned internal model of the world.  By intermixing conventional trial and error with hypothetical trial and error using the world model, Dyna systems can plan and learn optimal behavior very rapidly.  1 Reinforcement Learning The reinforcement learning problem is summarized in Figure 1.  On some short time cycle, a learning agent receives sensory information from its environment and chooses an action to send to the environment.  In addition, the learning agent receives a special signal from the environment called the reward.  Unlike the sensory information, which may be a large feature vector, or the action, which may also have many components, the reward is a single realvalued scalar, a number.  The goal of learning is the maximization of the cumulative reward received over time.  Reinforcement learning systems can be defined as learning systems designed for and that perform well on this problem.  Informally, we define reinforcement learning as learning by trial and error from performance feedback---i. e. , from feedback that evaluates the behavior generated by the learning agent but does not indicate correct behavior.  The term "reinforcement learning" appears to have been coined by Minsky (1961), and independently in control theory by Waltz and Fu (1965).  The idea of course comes originally from animal-learning psychology.
