In the teaching of quality management in
 60-hour third year BSc in Management Sciences joint Honours courses, Dale has found that the overwhelming perception of students is that an effective level of quality is more difficult to achieve in service than in manufacturing situations.  The general view was that quality in manufacturing companies is controlled by technology, the human interaction in the process is minimum, batches of product are always large, and all defects are found prior to shipment to the customer, and so it is bound to be easier than in services.  This led him to probe the reasons for this viewpoint, the major findings of which are summarized in this paper.  Dale has been researching quality management since 1981 and came to the subject with an engineering and technical bias.  The early research carried out by him in manufacturing has been complimented by more recent work in hospitals, financial services, public sector, education and the recently privatized utilities.  A summary of Dale's research work over this timeframe is given in Dale (1996).  Some of the initial thoughts which immediately sprang to mind regarding the perceptions held by the third year students, included: .  their lack of familiarity with manufacturing in comparison with the services which they experienced most days of their life; .  the distinct body of literature which is available on services in general, and service quality in particular; .  the marketing fraternity have made the largest contribution to the literature on service quality; marketing is a popular subject among management science students, the job prospects are considerable and so the subject carries some degree of influence with students; .  academic staff in business and management schools are more comfortable teaching services than they are with manufacturing and consequently provide more examples and speak with more conviction on the former.  In addition, students are usually more interested in the management of quality in service situations because they associate quality management in manufacturing with more quantitative issues which, in general, they have difficulties in understanding and do not like.  They tend to be interested in applying quality management principles to hotels, holiday parks, software, consultancy etc. ,
