Research on Distributed Real Time Network Information Auditing System
 Abstract This paper discusses a method to realize the real time network information auditing system in the windows operating system.  Distributed architecture and BPF packet filter mechanism are used to accomplish the acquisition of sensitive data in the network.  By the use of raw socket technique, sensitive packets are gathered.  Intellectualized identification technology is utilized to do auditing of the network information and has realized a network information auditing system with high performance at low cost.  The archetypal system shows good performance in test.  1.  Background With the rapid development of the Internet, the release and sharing of information have been more and more popular.  However, because of the Internet's openness, socialization and individuation, some unhealthy information has been released on the net.  Further more, companies and enterprises, when getting connected to the Internet, also confronted the problem of leaking important techniques and commercial security to opponents.  Thus, appropriate information auditing is necessary to assure network healthy development.  Information auditing technique can monitor the network dataflow in real-time, find unhealthy information, log visiting information, and supply evidences for later check-up; By analyzing network dataflow, reporting suspicious connection and events, information auditing technique can prevent enterprise's information from being leaked.  2.  System mechanism 2. 1 Network based information auditing technology Network based information auditing can collect information from the network system.  By analyzing the information, net auditing system can realize the real-time monitoring and prevent information leakage, information illegal access, and protect the secret information.  Information auditing system can record visiting information as follows: source IP address, destination IP address (host that has been visited), accurate visiting timestamp, services (http, mail or telnet) and etc.  Auditing system must have the ability to monitor and accumulate the secure events.  That is, while some kind of "bad" information-visiting events has reached a threshold, the system can report to the secure officer.  If such event continues to occur, the system can stop it with low cost.  2. 2 Key technology analysis 2. 2. 1 Intellectual Information Identification Content comprehension is quite necessary for information auditing.  Content analysis model is based on information content, while common information analysis models are based on vocabulary level, separating grammar, discrete content and context.  This kind of information models leads to rigidity and low efficiency.  This system makes full use of sensitive information database (SID) and sensitive information analyzer (SIA) to simulate human content-comprehension models, and realizes information content analysis and capture of sensitive information in some degree.  1)
