To appear in:
 Abstract Most theoretical and empirical studies of population codes make the assumption that underlying neuronal activities is a unique and unambiguous value of an encoded quantity.  However, population activities can contain additional information about such things as multiple values of or uncertainty about the quantity.  We have previously suggested a method to recover extra information by treating the activities of the population of cells as coding for a complete distribution over the coded quantity rather than just a single value.  We now show how this approach bears on psychophysical and neurophysiological studies of population codes for motion direction in tasks involving transparent motion stimuli.  We show that, unlike standard approaches, it is able to recover multiple motions from population responses, and also that its output is consistent with both correct and erroneous human performance on psychophysical tasks.  A population code can be defined as a set of units whose activities collectively encode some underlying variable (or variables).  The standard view is that population codes are useful for accurately encoding the underlying variable when the individual units are noisy.  Current statistical approaches to interpreting population activity reflect this view, in that they determine the optimal single value that explains the observed activity pattern given a particular model of the noise (and possibly a loss function).  In our work, we have pursued an alternative hypothesis, that the population encodes additional information about the underlying variable, including multiple values and uncertainty.  The Distributional Population Coding (DPC) framework finds the best probability distribution across values that fits the population activity (Zemel, Dayan, & Pouget, 1998).  The DPC framework is appealing since it makes clear how extra information can \Delta` :30 ffi \Delta` :60 ffi \Delta` :90 ffi \Delta` :120 ffi Figure 1: Each of the four plots depicts a single MT cell response (spikes per second) to a transparent motion stimulus of a fixed directional difference (\Delt)between the two motion directions.  The x-axis gives the average direction of stimulus motion relative to the cell's preferred direction (0 ffi ).  From Treue, personal communication.  be conveyed in a population code.  In this paper, we use it to address a particular body of experimental data on transparent motion perception, due to Treue and colleagues (Hol & Treue, 1997; Rauber & Treue, 1997).  These transparent motion experiments provide an ideal test of the DPC framework, in that the neurophysiological data reveal how the population responds to multiple values in the stimuli, and the psychophysical data describe how these values are actually decoded, putatively from the population response.  We investigate how standard methods fare on these data, and compare their performance to that of DPC.  1 RESPONSES TO MULTIPLE MOTIONS Many investigators have examined neural and behavioral responses to stimuli composed of two patterns sliding across each other.  These often create the impression of two separate surfaces moving in different directions.  The general neurophysiological finding is that an MT cell's response to these stimuli can be characterized as the average of its responses to the individual components (van Wezel et al. , 1996; Recanzone et al. , 1997).  As an example, Figure 1 shows data obtained from single-cell recordings in MT to random dot patterns consisting of two distinct motion directions (Treue, personal communication).  Each plot is for a different relative angle (\Delt)between the two directions.  A plot can equivalently be viewed as the response of an population of MT cells having different preferred directions to a single presentation of a stimulus containing two directions.  If \Delta` is large, the activity profile is bimodal, but as the directional difference shrinks, the profile becomes unimodal.  The population response to a \Delta` =30 ffi motion stimulus is merely a wider version of the response to a stimulus containing a single direction of motion.  However, this transition from a bimodal to unimodal profiles in MT does not apparently correspond to subjects' percepts; subjects can reliably perceive both motions in superimposed transparent random patterns down to an angle of 10 ffi (Mather & Moulden, 1983).  If these MT activities play a determining role in mo
