Distributional Population Codes and Multiple Motion Models
 Abstract Most theoretical and empirical studies of population codes make the assumption that underlying neuronal activities is a unique and unambiguous value of an encoded quantity.  However, population activities can contain additional information about such things as multiple values of or uncertainty about the quantity.  We have previously suggested a method to recover extra information by treating the activities of the population of cells as coding for a complete distribution over the coded quantity rather than just a single value.  We now show how this approach bears on psychophysical and neurophysiological studies of population codes for motion direction in tasks involving transparent motion stimuli.  We show that, unlike standard approaches, it is able to recover multiple motions from population responses, and also that its output is consistent with both correct and erroneous human performance on psychophysical tasks.  A population code can be defined as a set of units whose activities collectively encode some underlying variable (or variables).  The standard view is that population codes are useful for accurately encoding the underlying variable when the individual units are noisy.  Current statistical approaches to interpreting population activity reflect this view, in that they determine the optimal single value that explains the observed activity pattern given a particular model of the noise (and possibly a loss function).  In our work, we have pursued an alternative hypothesis, that the population encodes additional information about the underlying variable, including multiple values and uncertainty.  The Distributional Population Coding (DPC) framework finds the best probability distribution across values that fits the population activity (Zemel, Dayan, & Pouget, 1998).  The DPC framework is appealing since it makes clear how extra information can \Delta` : 30 ffi \Delta` : 60 ffi \Delta` : 90 ffi \Delta` : 120 ffi Figure 1: Each of the four plots depicts a single MT cell response (spikes per second) to a transparent motion stimulus of a fixed directional difference (\Delt)between the two motion directions.  The x-axis gives the average direction of stimulus motion relative to the cell's preferred direction (0 ffi ).  From Treue, personal communication.  be conveyed in a population code.  In this paper, we use it to address a particular body of experimental data on transparent motion perception, due to Treue and colleagues (Hol & Treue, 1997; Rauber & Treue, 1997).  These transparent motion experiments provide an ideal test of the DPC framework, in that the neurophysiological data reveal how the population responds to multiple values in the stimuli, and the psychophysical data describe how these values are actually decoded, putatively from the population response.  We investigate how standard methods fare on these data, and compare their performance to that of DPC.
