MORSE: A 3D Object Recognition System Based on Geometric Invariants
 Abstract MORSE is an object recognition system, based on geometric invariants of 3D structures taken from a single 2D intensity view.  The system exploits the geometric constraints inherent in object classes such as polyhedra, rotational symmetry, bi-lateral symmetry and extruded surfaces.  Invariants have been used in the past to index many of these classes, but MORSE is designed to treat multi-class recognition in a unform system architecture.  The class constraints are also used to drive image feature extraction and grouping.  1 Invariant Representation The computer recognition of objects has attracted considerable research effort over the last 25 years.  It is now widely accepted that object recognition, in the setting of real world scenes and based on a single perspective view, is a difficult problem and cannot be achieved without the use of object models to guide the processing of image data and to confirm object hypotheses.  It is also accepted that the most reliable information which is available in a scene is derived from a geometric description \Lambda The research reported here is funded in part by DARPA Contract #MDA972-91-C-0053 of the object based on its projection in the form of 2D geometric image features, as opposed to, for example, its intensity shading.  Thus, object recognition systems draw on a library of geometric models, which usually contain information about the shape and appearance of a set of known objects, to determine which, if any, of those objects appear in a given image or image sequence.  Recognition is considered successful if the geometric configuration in an image can be explained as a perspective projection of a geometric model of the object.  A major constraint underlying the work presented here is that recognition is based on one uncalibrated view of a scene.  Our motivation is that this restriction applies in many of the current and future applications for object recognition, such as aerial surveillance, image database query processing, image-hypertext editing, and scene construction for virtual reality.  Even if more images are available, for example in the case of video processing, camera calibration will not generally be known initially.  Any grouping, recognition hypothesis, or object recovered up to some ambiguity from a single image, can be propagated to advantage to subsequent views.  This paper describes a number of examples of 3D object classes that can be recognized from a single image.  These classes are defined geometrically, as opposed to function[16] or other ontological categories.  For example a surface of revolution is a geometric object class, as opposed to a type of vase, which would be functional.  Rather than identifying a particular model directly, recognition is class based, proceeding by first classifying based on image curves, and subsequently identifying a particular object.  We present here a prototype class based recognition architecture, which integrates these ideas.  Class informs each level of the architecture from image grouping through to organization of the model base and finally the constraints imposed by object classes on the 3D scene configuration.  2 The MORSE System These ideas about 3D invariant class representation and recognition from a single view form the basis for a new object recognition system called MORSE 1 2. 1 The Architecture Control Representation is organized into a number of layers as illustrated in figure 1.  These stages of representation are not very different from other recognition architectures, however the main principles of class and global consistency provide a framework for control and geometric data query management.  Segmentation and grouping The key to successful recognition is efficient and robust feature segmentation and grouping.  There are four levels of image feature representation and grouping: Level I: Pixel-level features are defined with respect to an image coordinate system and reflect the quantized nature of pixel coordinates.  Typically, features will be produced using an edge operator with subpixel accuracy, and the resulting edgels linked into list.  This level is topological - linked curves and vertices are represented.  Level II: Geometric features curves from level I are described in terms of geometric primitives, where appropriate.  For example: algebraic curves, smooth curves, concavities.  Level III: Generic Grouped features This level of grouping is applied to all features produced at level II.  The output is a number of groupings and databases which are used by the class-based groupers described below.  Generic grouping includes: near incidence (jumping small gaps, completing corners and junctions); collinearity; marking bitangent and other distinguished points; affine or projective equivalence of curve segments (e. g.  concavities).  Pairing up concavities uses the distinguished points provided by bitangents and associated cast tangents.  Level IV: Class based grouping Each class has an associated "class based grouper" or agent that interrogates the level III groupings and databases, and attempts to form groups appropriate for its class.  If 1 The acronym is Multiple Object Recognition System by Scene Entailment and is named after an Oxford detective character.  successful, class based invariants are extracted from the grouped features and directly index the relevant class library.  An example of the class specific grouping mechanism is described in section 3.  Indexing and Hypothesis Combination Indexing is handled by a series of hash-tables, one per class, that take the invariants of a system of generalized features and associate with them models in the modelbase.  For complex objects, there may be many feature groups that index to the object, leading to a situation where a single instance could cause many verifications.  The number of potential hypotheses can be reduced by forming joint hypotheses (cliques), based on either topological or invariant geometric relations between feature groups that have indexed to the same model instance.  The Modelbase This has three components: ffl Model class properties, which implements the class constraints to enable grouping, correspondence and indexing.  The invariant properties of the classes to be implemented in MORSE are summarized in table 1.  ffl Object property model base, which contains information on object properties that follow from its identity as an object, such as orientation with respect to other objects; - it is at this level that scene-level knowledge is stored.  ffl Retrieval mechanisms, which will normally consist of hash-tables, used to associate feature groups with objects.  The Scene An additional source of constraints and parameters is the 3D scene, which can also be viewed as a database which reflects the current configuration of the world and cameras.  It provides a representation of all information currently available about the common Euclidean frame in which objects reside.  Verification Verification proceeds at many levels of the formation of a hypothesis.  Many model-based vision systems only apply verification at the final object instance hypothesis level.  In MORSE, intermediate stages of representation and grouping are also verified with respect to information at lower levels of representation.  For example, a set of polyhedral face hypotheses can be refined and verified by applying a "snake" defined by polyhedral incidence and projection constraints.  This idea can be extended even to modeling and verifying local image intensity surface events, such as corners.  2. 2 Model Acquisition In MORSE models are directly acquired from multiple views 2 .  The fact that such models can serve as sufficient representations for recognition is a major advantage of the invariant approach.  We expect that only a small number of views will be required for most objects and that these views will be defined by the extraction of a sufficient set of stable features over a wide range of viewpoints.  2 For some classes, such as a rotationally symmetric object, a single view will suffice.
