Shape Representations from Shading Primitives
 Abstract Diffuse interreflections mean that surface shading and shape are related in ways that are difficult to untangle; in particular, distant and invisible surfaces may affect the shading field that one sees.  The effects of distant surfaces are confined to relatively low spatial frequencies in the shading field, meaning that we can expect signatures, called shading primitives, corresponding to shape properties.  We demonstrate how these primitives can be used to support the construction of useful shape representations.  Approaches to this include testing hypotheses of geometric primitives for consistency with the shading field, and looking for shading events that are distinctive of some shape event.  We show that these approaches can be composed, leading to an attractive process of representation that is intrinsically bottom up.  This representation can be extracted from images of real scenes, and that the representation is diagnostic.  1 Background Changes in surface brightness are a powerful cue to the shape of a surface; the study of extracting shape information from image shading starts with [12] and is comprehensively summed up in Brooks' book [13].  The approach views shading as a local effect; surface brightness is modelled as a product of a visibility term and a non-negative function of the Gauss map, leading to a partial differential equation---the image irradiance equation---whichexpresses the relationship between surface geometry and image brightness.  Shape from shading theories that view shading as a local effect are now widely agreed to be unsatisfactory, for three reasons: the local shading model omits the effects of diffuse interreflections, a source of substantial effects in the brightness of surfaces; the underlying shape representation, a dense depth map, contains excess detail for most recognition applications; and the necessary assumptions are unrealistically restrictive.  New models of shape from shading can be obtained by changing either the type of shape representation sought in the shading field [9], or the model of shading [18, 19, 16].
