Noise in Bilinear Problems
 Abstract: Despite the wide application of bilinear problems to problems both in computer vision and in other fields, their behaviour under the effects of noise is still poorly understood.  In this paper, we show analytically that marginal distributions on the solution components of a bilinear problem can be bimodal, even with Gaussian measurement error.  We demonstrate and compare three different methods of estimating the covariance of a solution.  We show that the Hessian at the mode substantially underestimates covariance.  Many problems in computer vision can be posed as bilinear problems: i. e.  one must find a solution to a set of equations of the form c k = # ij g ijk a i b j for c k a set of known terms (henceforth measurements), and g ijk a set of known interaction terms.  Typically, a i and b j are constrained in some way to allow a unique solution.  The most familiar example is Tomasi and Kanade's formulation of orthographic structure-from-motion [9]; shapefrom-shading and other vision problems can be framed this way too (see [5] for a review.  Other naturally bilinear problems include: inverse kinematics for parallel manipulators [6]; and molecular conformation [1]).  The effect of noise in the measurements is not well understood.  Figure 1 shows a scatter plot of of point positions reconstructed from an orthographic image sequence with Gaussian noise.  Not only are the distributions quite obviously not Gaussian, some even appear bimodal.  There is no reason to expect that they should be Gaussian. Aswe shall see, noise can lead to bimodal marginal posteriors on a i , meaning that straightforward covariance estimates are extremely unreliable.  This paper compares three methods of estimating covariance for marginals on a i and b j in bilinear problems.  In section 1, we analyse some simple examples which illustrate the problem.  We then examine three possible ways of estimating a covariance, and show that two which appear in the literature can be rather misleading in their estimates of covariance.  We focus on the orthographic structure-frommotion problem because it is most familiar, but the conclusions that we draw are equally applicable to any bilinear problem.  1 Analytical examples Even quite simple examples display considerable complexity, but have the advantage that analysis is possible.  1. 1 A One-Dimensional Example Consider a 2 2 measurement matrix D, which is assumed to be close to a rank-1 matrix, differing only by a Gaussian noise matrix W, with w ij # N(0,# 2 ).  We can write this as: # 1 u # # xy # = D + W We have constrained the first component of the column vector to be 1 to remove the scaling ambiguity that would otherwise be present.  Since the noise is iid Gaussian, we can easily write the posterior pdf: P (u, x, y
