The Microarchitecture of the Pentium
 ABSTRACT This paper describes the Intel NetBurst^TM microarchitecture of Intel's new flagship Pentium 4 processor.  This microarchitecture is the basis of a new family of processors from Intel starting with the Pentium 4 processor.  The Pentium 4 processor provides a substantial performance gain for many key application areas where the end user can truly appreciate the difference.  In this paper we describe the main features and functions of the NetBurst microarchitecture.  We present the frontend of the machine, including its new form of instruction cache called the Execution Trace Cache.  We also describe the out-of-order execution engine, including the extremely low latency double-pumped Arithmetic Logic Unit (ALU) that runs at 3GHz.  We also discuss the memory subsystem, including the very low latency Level 1 data cache that is accessed in just two clock cycles.  We then touch on some of the key features that allow the Pentium 4 processor to have outstanding floating-point and multi-media performance.  We provide some key performance numbers for this processor, comparing it to the Pentium III processor.  INTRODU TION The Pent um 4 processor is Intel's new flagship microprocessor that was introduced at 1. 5GHz in November of 2000.  It implements the new Intel NetBurst microarchitecture that features significantly higher clock rates and world-class performance.  It includes several important new features and innovations that will allow the Intel Pentium 4 processor to deliver industry-leading performance for the next several years.  This paper provides an in-depth examination of the features and functions of the Intel NetBurst microarchitecture.  The Pentium 4 processor is designed to deliver performance across applications where end users can truly appreciate and experience its performance.  For example, it allows a much better user experience in areas such as Internet audio and streaming video, image processing, video content creation, speech recognition, 3D applications and games, multi-media, and multi-tasking user environments.  The Pentium 4 processor enables realtime MPEG2 video encoding and near real-time MPEG4 encoding, allowing efficient video editing and video conferencing.  It delivers world-class performance on 3D applications and games, such as Quake 3 # , enabling a new level of realism and visual quality to 3D applications.  The Pentium 4 processor has 42 million transistors implemented on Intel's 0. 18u CMOS process, with six levels of aluminum interconnect.  It has a die size of 217 mm 2 and it consumes 55 watts of power at 1. 5GHz.  Its 3. 2 GB/second system bus helps provide the high data bandwidths needed to supply data to today's and tomorrow's demanding applications.  It adds 144 new 128-bit Single Instruction Multiple Data (SIMD) instructions called SSE2 (Streaming SIMD Extension 2) that improve performance for multi-media, content creation, scientific, and engineering applications.  # Other brands and names are the property of their respective owners.  OVERVIEW OF THE NETBURST ^TM MICROARCHITECTURE A fast processor requires balancing and tuning of many microarchitectural features that compete for processor die cost and for design and validation efforts.  Figure 1 shows the basic Intel NetBurst microarchitecture of the Pentium 4 processor.  As you can see, there are four main sections: the in-order front end, the out-of-order execution engine, the integer and floating-point execution units, and the memory subsystem.
