The Early Word Catches the Weights
 Abstract The strong correlation between the frequency of words and their naming latency has been well documented.  However, as early as 1973, the Age of Acquisition (AoA) of a word was alleged to be the actual variable of interest, but these studies seem to have been ignored in most of the literature.  Recently, there has been a resurgence of interest in AoA.  While some studies have shown that frequency has no effect when AoA is controlled for, more recent studies have found independent contributions of frequency and AoA.  Connectionist models have repeatedly shown strong effects of frequency, but little attention has been paid to whether they can also show AoA effects.  Indeed, several researchers have explicitly claimed that they cannot show AoA effects.  In this work, we explore these claims using a simple feed forward neural network.  We find a significant contribution of AoA to naming latency, as well as conditions under which frequency provides an independent contribution.  1 Background Naming latency is the time between the presentation of a picture or written word and the beginning of the correct utterance of that word.  It is undisputed that there are significant differences in the naming latency of many words, even when controlling word length, syllabic complexity, and other structural variants.  The cause of differences in naming latency has been the subject of numerous studies.  Earlier studies found that the frequency with which a word appears in spoken English is the best determinant of its naming latency (Oldfield & Wingfield, 1965).  More recent psychological studies, however, show that the age at which a word is learned, or its Age of Acquisition (AoA), may be a better predictor of naming latency.  Further, in many multiple regression analyses, frequency is not found to be significant when AoA is controlled for (Brown & Watson, 1987; Carroll & White, 1973; Morrison et al.  1992; Morrison & Ellis, 1995).  These studies show that frequency and AoA are highly correlated (typically r = -. 6) explaining the confound of older studies on frequency.  However, still more recent studies question this finding and find that both AoA and frequency are significant and contribute independently to naming latency (Ellis & Morrison, 1998; Gerhand & Barry, 1998,1999).  Much like their psychological counterparts, connectionist networks also show very strong frequency effects.  However, the ability of a connectionist network to show AoA effects has been doubted (Gerhand & Barry, 1998; Morrison & Ellis, 1995).  Most of these claims are based on the well known fact that connectionist networks exhibit "destructive interference" in which later presented stimuli, in order to be learned, force early learned inputs to become less well represented, effectively increasing their associated errors.  However, these effects only occur when training ceases on the early patterns.  Continued training on all the patterns mitigates the effects of interference from later patterns.  Recently, Ellis & Lambon-Ralph (in press) have shown that when pattern presentation is staged, with one set of patterns initially trained, and a second set added into the training set later, strong AoA effects are found.  They show that this result is due to a loss of plasticity in the network units, which tend to get out of the linear range with more training.  While this result is not surprising, it is a good model of the fact that some words may not come into existence until late in life, such as "email" for baby boomers.  However, they explicitly claim that it is important to stage the learning in this way, and offer no explanation of what happens during early word acquisition, when the surrounding vocabulary is relatively constant, or why and when frequency and AoA show independent effects.  In this paper, we present an abstract feed-forward computational model of word acquisition that does not stage inputs.  We use this model to examine the effects of frequency and AoA on sum squared error, the usual variable used to model reaction time.  We find a consistent contribution of AoA to naming latency, as well as the conditions under which there is an independent contribution from frequency in some tasks.  2 Experiment 1: Do networks show AoA effects? Our first goal was to show that AoA effects could be observed in a connectionist network using the simplest possible model.  First, we need to define AoA in a network.  We did this is such a way that staging the inputs was not necessary: we defined a threshold for the error, after which we would say a pattern has been "acquired. " The AoA is defined to be the epoch during which this threshold is crossed.  Since error for a particular pattern may occasionally go up again during online learning, we also measured the last epoch that the pattern went below the threshold for final time.  We analyzed our networks using both definitions of acquisition (which we call first acquisition and final acquisition), and have found that the results vary little between these definitions.  In what follows, we use first acquisition for simplicity.  2. 1 The Model The simplest possible model is an autoencoder network.  Using a network architecture of 20-15-20, we trained the network to autoencode 200 patterns of random bits (each bit had a 50% probability of being on or off).  We initialized weights randomly with a flat distribution of values between 0. 1 and -0. 1, used a learning rate of 0. 001 and momentum of 0. 9.  For this experiment, we chose the AoA threshold to be 2, indicating an average squared error of . 1 per input bit, yielding outputs much closer to the correct output than any other.  We calculated Euclidean distances between all outputs and patterns to verify that the input was mapped most closely to the correct output.  Training on the entire corpus continued until 98% of all patterns fell below this threshold.  2. 2 Results After the network had learned the input corpus, we investigated the relationship between the epoch at which the input vector had been learned and the final sum squared error (equivalent, for us, to "adult" naming latency) for that input vector.  These results are presented in Figure 1.  The relationship between the age of acquisition of the input vector and its
