Facial Memory Is Kernel Density Estimation (Almost)
 Abstract We compare the ability of three exemplar-based memory models, each using three different face stimulus representations, to account for the probability a human subject responded "old" in an old/new facial memory experiment.  The models are 1) the Generalized Context Model, 2) SimSample, a probabilistic sampling model, and 3) MMOM, a novel model related to kernel density estimation that explicitly encodes stimulus distinctiveness.  The representations are 1) positions of stimuli in MDS "face space," 2) projections of test faces onto the "eigenfaces" of the study set, and 3) a representation based on response to a grid of Gabor filter jets.  Of the 9 model/representation combinations, only the distinctiveness model in MDS space predicts the observed "morph familiarity inversion" effect, in which the subjects' false alarm rate for morphs between similar faces is higher than their hit rate for many of the studied faces.  This evidence is consistent with the hypothesis that human memory for faces is a kernel density estimation task, with the caveat that distinctive faces require larger kernels than do typical faces.  1 Background Studying the errors subjects make during face recognition memory tasks aids our understanding of the mechanisms and representations underlying memory, face processing, and visual perception.  One way of evoking such errors is by testing subjects' recognition of new faces created from studied faces that have been combined in some way (e. g.  Solso and McCarthy, 1981; Reinitz, Lammers, and Cochran 1992).  Busey and Tunnicliff (submitted) have recently examined the extent to which image-quality morphs between unfamiliar faces affect subjects' tendency to make recognition errors.  Their experiments used facial images of bald males and morphs between these images (see Figure 1: Three normalized morphs from the database.  Figure 1) as stimuli.  In one study, Busey (in press) had subjects rate the similarity of all pairs in a large set of faces and morphs, then performed a multidimensional scaling (MDS) of these similarity ratings to derive a 6-dimensional "face space" (Valentine and Endo, 1992).  In another study, "Experiment 3" (Busey and Tunnicliff, submitted), 179 subjects studied 68 facial images, including 8 similar pairs and 8 dissimilar pairs, as determined in a pilot study.  These pairs were included in order to study how morphs between similar faces and dissimilar faces evoke false alarms.  We call the pair of images from which a morph are derived its "parents," and the morph itself as their "child. " In the experiment's test phase, the subjects were asked to make new/old judgments in response to 8 of the 16 morphs, 20 completely new distractor faces, the 36 non-parent targets and one of the parents of each of the 8 morphs.  The results were that, for many of the morph/parent pairs, subjects responded "old" to the unstudied morph more often than to its studied parent.  However, this effect (a morph familiarity inversion) only occurred for the morphs with similar parents.  It seems that the similar parents are so similar to their "child" morphs that they both contribute toward an "old" (false alarm) response to the morph.  Researchers have proposed many models to account for data from explicit memory experiments.  Although we have applied other types of models to Busey and Tunnicliff's data with largely negative results (Dailey et al. , 1998), in this paper, we limit discussion to exemplar-based models, such as the Generalized Context Model (Nosofsky, 1986) and SAM (Gillund and Shiffrin, 1984).  These models rely on the assumption that subjects explicitly store representations of each of the stimuli they study.  Busey and Tunnicliff applied several exemplar-based models to the Experiment 3 data, but none of these models have been able to fully account for the observed similar morph familiarity inversion without positing that the similar parents are explicitly blended in memory, producing prototypes near the morphs.  We extend Busey and Tunnicliff's (submitted) work by applying two of their exemplar models to additional image-based face stimulus representations, and we propose a novel exemplar model that accounts for the similar morphs' familiarity inversion.  The results are consistent with the hypothesis that facial memory is a kernel density estimation (Bishop, 1995) task, except that distinctive exemplars require larger kernels.  Also, on the basis of our model, we can predict that distinctiveness with respect to the study set is the critical factor influencing kernel size, as opposed to a context-free notion of distinctiveness.  We can easily test this prediction empirically.
