FLOATING-GATE DEVICES: THEY ARE NOT JUST FOR DIGITAL MEMORIES ANYMORE
 ABSTRACT Since the first reported #oating-gate structure in 1967, floatinggate transistors have been used widely to store digital information for long periods in structures suchasEPROMs and EEPROMs.  Recently, #oating-gate devices have found applications as analog memories, analog and digital circuit elements, and adaptive processing elements.  Floating-gate devices have found commerical applications, e. g.  ISD, for long-term non-volatile information storage devices for analog applications.  The focus of #oating-gate devices has been towards fabrication in standard CMOS processes, as opposed to the specialized processes for fabricating digital nonvolatile memories.  Floating-gate circuits can be designed at any or all of three levels: analog memory elements, capacitive-based circuit elements, and adaptive circuit elements.  In 1967, Kahng and Sze reported the first #oating-gate structure as a mechanism for nonvolatile information storage [1].  Since then, #oating-gate transistors have been used widely to store digital information for long periods in structures suchasEPROMs, EEPROMs, and Flash memories [2, 3].  Figure 1 sketches the growth of non-volatile digital technology from the inception of the #oating-gate device in 1967.  These digital nonvolatile memory technologies have only been fabricated on specialized IC processes.  Even though digital memories have been the primary application for #oating-gate devices, recently #oating-gate devices have been used as circuit elements.  Floating-gate devices are not inherently digital memories, it only depends upon the way the circuit designer uses the available technology.  Figure 1 also sketches the progress of #oating-gate devices and circuits other than EEPROM devices.  The research in #oating-gate circuits has been exponentially increasing over the last several years; the goal is to further develop this technology to give researchers a wider set of solutions in solving integrated circuit problems.  The focus of this paper, whichintroduces the special session on #oating-gate devices and circuits, is to show that floatinggate devices are not just for memories anymore, but are circuit elements with analog memory and important timedomain dynamics.
