An Adaptive WTA using Floating Gate Technology
 Abstract We have designed, fabricated, and tested an adaptive Winner-Take--All (WTA) circuit based upon the classic WTA of Lazzaro, et al [1].  We have added a time dimension (adaptation) to this circuit to make the input derivative an important factor in winner selection.  To accomplish this, we have modified the classic WTA circuit by adding floating gate transistors which slowly null their inputs over time.  We present a simplified analysis and experimental data of this adaptive WTA fabricated in a standard CMOS 2m process.  1 Winner--Take--All Circuits In a WTA network, each cell has one input and one output.  For any set of inputs, the outputs will all be at zero except for the one which is from the cell with the maximum input.  One way to accomplish this is by a global nonlinear inhibition coupled with a self-excitation term [2].  Each cell inhibits all others while exciting itself; thus a cell with even a slightly greater input than the others will excite itself up to its maximal state and inhibit the others down to their minimal states.  The WTA function is important for many classical neural nets that involve competitive learning, vector quantization and feature mapping.  The classic WTA network characterized by Lazzaro et.  al.  [1] is an elegant, simple circuit that shares just one common line among all cells of the network to propagate the inhibition.  Our motivation to add adaptation comes from the idea of saliency maps.  Picture a saliency map as a large number of cells each of which encodes an analog value V dd V dd V dd I 1 I 2 V tun01 V tun02 C 1 C 2 M1 M2 M3 M4 M5 C 2 C 1 V b C L V 1 V 2 V fg1 V fg2 I out1 I out2 C L V Figure 1: The circuit diagram of a two input winner-take-all circuit.  reflecting some measure of the importance (saliency) of its input.  We would like to pay attention to the most salient cell, so we employ a WTA function to tell us where to look.  But if the input doesn't change, we never look away from that one cell.  We would like to introduce some concept of fatigue and refraction to each cell such that after winning for some time, it tires, allowing other cells to win, and then it must wait some time before it can win again.  We call this circuit an adaptive WTA.  In this paper, we present an adaptive WTA based upon the classic WTA; Figure 1 shows a two-input, adaptive WTA circuit.  The difference between the classic and adaptive WTA is that M 4 and M 5 are pFET single transistor synapses.  A single transistor synapse [3] is either an nFET or pFET transistor with a floating gate and a tunneling junction.  This enhancement results in the ability of each transistor to adapt to its input bias current.  The adaptation is a result of the electron tunneling and hot-electron injection modifying the charge on the floating gate; equilibrium is established when the tunneling current equals the injection current.  The circuit is devised in such a way that these are negative feedback mechanisms, consequently the output voltage will always return to the same steady state voltage determined by its bias current regardless of the DC input level.  Like the autozeroing amplifier [4], the adaptive WTA is an example of a circuit where the adaptation occurs as a natural part of the circuit operation.  2 pFET hot-electron injection and electron tunneling Before considering the behavior of the adaptive WTA, we will review the processes of electron tunneling and hot-electron injection in pFETs.  In subthreshold operation, we can describe the channel current of a pFET (I p ) for a differential change in gate voltage, \DeltaV g , around a fixed bias current I so , as I p = I so exp i\Gamma \DeltaV g UT j where p is the amount by which \DeltaV g affects the surface potential of the pFET, and U T is kT q .  We will assume for this paper that all transistors are identical.  First, we consider electron tunneling.  We start with the classic model of electron
