AN AUTOZEROING FLOATING-GATE BANDPASS FILTER
 ABSTRACT Wehave developed a bandpass #oating-gate amplifier that uses tunneling and pFET hot-electron injection to set its DC operating point adaptively.  Because the gate currents are small, the circuit exhibits a high-pass characteristic with a cutoff frequency less than 1 Hz.  The high-frequency cutoff is controlled electronically, as is done in continuous-time filters.  Wehave derived analytical models that completely characterize the amplifier and that are in good agreement with experimental data.  This autozeroing #oating-gate ampli#er demonstrates howtousecontinuous-time, floatinggate adaptation in amplifier design.  We previously introduced the autozeroing #oating-gate amplifier (AFGA)[1]; here, we use the AFGA as an integrated continuous-time bandpass filter.  Figure 1 shows the autozeroing #oating-gate amplifier.  The open-loop ampli#er consists of a pFET input transistor and an nFET current source.  With capacitive feedback, the input signal is amplified by a closed-loop gain approximately equal to , C 1 C 2 .  We present data from an AFGA fabricated in the 2#m nwell Orbit CMOS process available through MOSIS.  Typical operating values for Vtun were between 33V and 42V ; those for Vdd were between 6V and 12V .  We obtained similar data in the 1:2#m nwell Orbit CMOS process, but with typical operating values for Vtun between 26V and 31V .  For more modern processes, the typical operating voltages will decrease, because of thinner gate oxides and higher dopant impurity concentrations.  1.  TIME-DOMAIN AFGA RESPONSE The complementary nFET and pFET currents adjust the output voltage such that the amplifier's #oating-gate voltage returns to its steady-state value on an intermediate time scale.  This circuit behavior translates to alow-pass filter with a short time constant at the output voltage.  The quiescent source current(Is0) is set by the nFET current source.  We model the nFET transistor as an ideal current source setting the bias current, Iso , for the AFGA.  We describe the channel current of the pFET by Ip = Iso exp # , ##Vg UT # ; (1) where # is the fractional change in the pFET surface potential due to a change in #Vg , and UT is the thermal Figure 1: An autozeroing #oating-gate amplifier (AFGA) that uses pFET hot-electron injection.  The ratio of C2 to C1 sets the gain of this inverting amplifier.  The nFET is a current source, and it sets the current through the pFET.  Steady state occurs when the injection current is equal to the tunneling current.  The capacitances, Cw and CL , represent both the parasitic and the explicitly drawn capacitances.  Between Vtun and V fg is our symbol for a tunneling junction, which is a capacitor between the #oating-gate and an nwell.  voltage, kT q .  We showed previously that for our operating conditions the AFGA's open-loop gain also is large (# 1000) and nearly constant [2].  Since the output capacitances are charged or discharged by currents on the scale of Is0 , the cutoff frequency will be directly dependenton the bias current.  Continuous-time integrators operate on a similar principle [3, 4].  The complementary tunneling and hot-electron injection processes adjust the #oating-gate charge such that the amplifier's output voltage returns to its steady-state value on a slow time scale.  The combination of electron tunneling and pFET hot-electron injection applies the appropriate negative feedback to stabilize the output voltage.  If the output voltage is below its equilibrium value, then the injection current exceeds the tunneling current, decreasing the charge on the floating gate; that, in turn, increases the
