Adaptive Circuits Using pFET Floating-Gate Devices
 Abstract In this paper, we describe our floating-gate pFET device, with its many circuit applications and supporting experimental measurements.  We developed these devices in standard double-poly CMOS technologies by utilizing many effects inherent in these processes.  We add floating-gate charge by electron tunneling, and we remove floatinggate charge by hot-electron injection.  With this floating-gate technology, we can not only build analog EEPROMs, we can also implement adaptation and learning when we consider floating-gate devices to be circuit elements with important time-domain dynamics.  We start by discussing non-adaptive properties of floating-gate devices and we present two representative non-adaptive applications.  First, we discuss using the floating-gate pFETs as non-volatile voltage sources or potentiometers (e-pots).  Second, we will discuss using floating-gate pFETs to build translinear circuits that compute the product of powers of the input currents.  We then discuss the physics, behavior, and applications of adaptation using floating-gate pFETs.  The physics of adaptation start with floating-gate pFETs with continuous tunneling and injection currents.  A single floating-gate MOS device operating with continuous-time tunneling and injection currents can exhibit either stabilizing or destabilizing behaviors.  One particular application is an autozeroing floating-gate amplifier (AFGA) that uses tunneling and pFET hot-electron injection to adaptively set its DC operating point.  Continuous-time circuits comprising multiple floating-gate MOS devices show various competitive and cooperative behaviors between devices.  These floating-gate circuits can be used to build silicon systems that adapt and learn.  In 1967, Kahng and Sze reported the first floating-gate structure as a mechanism for nonvolatile information storage [1].  Since then, floating-gate transistors have been used widely to store digital information for long periods in structures such as EPROMs, EEPROMs, and flash memories.  These digital nonvolatile memory technologies have only been fabricated on specialized and expensive processes.  FGMOS transistors have also been used as long-term non-volatile information storage devices for analog applications [2].  The focus of this paper is show that floating-gate devices are not just for memories anymore, but are also computational circuit elements with analog memory and important time-domain dynamics.  We will paint a coherent picture of the capabilities of pFET floating-gate devices starting from the work that we [3-15] and other colleagues [16-22] have developed over the last 10 years, and including recent research results.  We emphasize pFET floating-gate devices in this paper because any CMOS process will always have pFET injection for subthreshold and above-threshold biases.  A second and related focus is to show the availability and functionality of these floating-gate devices on standard CMOS processes.  To build floating-gate devices in a standard CMOS process, we use several inherent physical mechanisms (hot-electron injection, electron tunneling, DIBL) that are avoided by classical IC designers, mechanisms that will become more pronounced as the linewidths of CMOS processes continue to scale down.  All figures in this paper are our experimental measurements from floating-gate devices fabricated in 2. 0m and 1. 2m MOSIS processes.  n-well n-well p-substrate p + p + Cross-Section Slice n-well n-well V tun Vd Vs V in Floating-Gate C1 Figure 1: Layout, cross section, and circuit diagram of the floating-gate pFET in a standard double-poly nwell MOSIS process.  The cross section corresponds to the horizonatal line slicing through the layout view.  The pFET transistor is the standard pFET transistor in the nwell process.  The gate input capacitively couples to the floating-gate by either a poly-poly capacitor, a diffused linear capacitor, or a MOS capacitor, as seen in the circuit diagram (not explicitly shown in the other two figures).  We add floating-gate charge by electron tunneling, and we remove floating-gate charge by hot-electron injection.  The tunneling junctions used by the single-transistor synapses is a region of gate oxide between the polysilicon floating-gate and nwell (a MOS capacitor).  Between Vtun and the floating-gate is our symbol for a tunneling junction, a capacitor with an added arrow designating the charge flow.
