A FOUR-QUADRANT FLOATING-GATE SYNAPSE
 ABSTRACT We present a new type of pFET synapse; by degenerating the source, the oxide currents provide stabilizing feedback to the floating gate and to the drain.  We present experimental measurements from a #oating-gate synapse that simultaniously computes four-quadrant products of its input and weightvalues, and computes a four-quadrant correlation, typical of hebbian and backpropagation learning rules, between the input and drain voltages.  Our four-quadrant synapse is built from two source-degenerated pFET synapses; by adding weak exponential feedback to the source of a #oating-gate pFET synapse, we obtain a #oating-gate synapse with unique dynamical properties.  This four-quadrant synapse can become the fundamental building block of many continuoustime neural-network learning algorithms.  Floating-gate devices have come to be seen not only as memory elements, but as continuous-time circuit elements operating a variety of timescales.  This paper presents a #oating-gate synapse that computes four-quadrant products of its input (X i ) and its weightvalue (W i;j ), and computes a four-quadrant correlation of the input and error signal (e i ).  Figure 1 shows a diagram of a continuously adapting neural array; the inset shows schematically the synapse computations for the i th row and for the jth column.  This error signal could either be a function of the output, as in Hebbian or other unsupervised algorithms, or due to an error in the desired output, as in gradient-descent algorithms.  Four-quadrantmultiplications are essential in most adaptive-#lter and neural-network applications.  Biological synapses use two-quadrantmultiplications, but excitatory (positive multiplication) and inhibitory (negative multiplication) synapses are used in a cooperative fashion to achieve this functionality when needed [3].  Our four-quadrant #oating-gate synapses, as well as our previous synapses [2], are well suited to large synaptic arrays because of five important properties.  First, in the absence of learning, the weight is stored permanently, because the charge leakage from a floating gate is negligible.  Second, the synapse's output current is the four-quadrant product of the input signal with the synaptic weight.  Third, because our synapse only requires two #oating-gate transistors per synapse, the synapse still requires minimal area.  Fourth, the synapse can dissipate a minimal amountofpower, because it can operate at subthreshold current levels.  Fifth, this synapse implements a four-quadrant learning rule for Synapse W Input 2 Synapse W Input N Synapse W Input 1 Neuron Output W i,j ( )dt X j e i I out "Error Signal" Figure 1: Schematic diagram of a continuously-adapting neural network.  The neuron block cuold span the range from a sinple transresistance element to a biologically inspired neuron model.  Inset: Block diagram of a synapse at the i th row and at the j th column in this neural array.  A continuous-time synapse simultaniously outputs the product of its input (X j ) and its weight value (W i;j ), as well as updating the weightvalue based on the product of its input and the broadcasted error signal (e i ).  Ideally, wewant the multiplications to be four-quadrantmultiplies.  modifying the weight on the floating gate; the form of this rule depends on howvarious error signals are fed backto the floating gate.  1.  SOURCE-DEGENERATED PFET SYNAPSE Figure 2 shows the circuit model for the source-degenerated (s-d) pFET synapse; we presented the initial results previously [2].  Previous nFET or pFET synapses provided only either stabilizing feedback to the floating gate or stabilizing feedback to the drain; the gate currents of this s-d pFET synapse provide stabilizing feedback to both the floating gate and to the drain, making it a practical candidate for continuously operating arrays of #oating-gate synapses.  We will assume that all the #oating-gate devices are matched.  We define CT as the total amount of capacitance connected V in k x V dd V tun V d C 1 V fg V 1234567 Gate voltage (V)
