Categorization Under Complexity: A Unified MDL Account of Human Learning of Regular and Irregular Categories
 Abstract We present an account of human concept learning---that is, learning of categories from examples---based on the principle of minimum description length (MDL).  In support of this theory, we tested a wide range of two-dimensional concept types, including both regular (simple) and highly irregular (complex) structures, and found the MDL theory to give a good account of subjects' performance.  This suggests that the intrinsic complexity of a concept (that is, its description length) systematically influences its learnability.  1 The Structure of Categories A number of different principles have been advanced to explain the manner in which humans learn to categorize objects.  It has been variously suggested that the underlying principle might be the similarity structure of objects [1], the manipulability of decision boundaries [2], or Bayesian inference [3][4].  While many of these theories are mathematically well-grounded and have been successful in explaining a range of experimental findings, they have commonly only been tested on a narrow collection of concept types similar to the simple unimodal categories of Figure 1(a--c).  Figure 1: Categories similar to those previously studied.  Lines represent contours of equal probability.  All except (e) are unimodal.  9 http://ruccs. rutgers. edu/~jacob/feldman. html Moreover, in the scarce research that has ventured to look beyond simple category types, the goal has largely been to investigate categorization performance for isolated irregular distributions, rather than to present a survey of performance across a range of interesting distributions.  For example, Nosofsky has previously examined the "criss-cross" category of Figure 1(d) and a diagonal category similar to Concept 3 of Figure 2, as well as some other multimodal categories [5][6].  While these individual category structures are no doubt theoretically important, they in no way exhaust the range of possible concept structures.  Indeed, if we view1 -dimensional Cartesian space as the canvas upon which a category may be represented, then any set of manifolds in that space may be considered as a potential category [7].  It is therefore natural to ask whether one such category-manifold is in principle easierormoredifficult to learn than another.  Since previous investigations have never considered any reasonably broad range of category structures, they have never been in a position to answer this question.  In this paper we present a theory for human categorization, based on the MDL principle, that is much better equipped to answer questions about the intrinsic learnability of both structurally regular and structurally irregular categories.  In support of this theory we briefly present an experiment testing human subjects' learning of a range of concept types defined over a continuous two-dimensional feature space, including both highly regular and highly irregular structures.  We find that our MDL-based theory gives a good account of human learning for these concepts, and that descriptive complexity accurately predicts the subjective difficulty of the various concept types tested.
