Grouping via the Matching of Repeated Patterns
 `Grouping' is an important step in vision that combines features into higherorder perceptual entities, more amenable to semantic interpretation.  Many grouping types boil down to the repetition of one or more basic patterns.  Different grouping types are distinguished by the specific nature of this repetition, i. e.  the relative placements of the patterns, rather than the nature of the patterns themselves.  In many cases the patterns are planar or even coplanar.  Here we will assume repeated, planar but not necessarily coplanar patterns.  Although the repetition often is of a simple nature, image projection complicates its appearance through the perspective skew that it induces.  Even if a pattern is for instance mirror symmetric, its images are usually not.  What survives projection are the structures that remain fixed.  Structures like points and lines that are their own image under the repetition also remain fixed under the special projectivity that exists between the projected patterns in the image.  As an example, mirror symmetric point pairs remain fixed as a pair, all points on the (projected) symmetry axis are their own symmetric image -- i. e.  form a line of fixed points -- and the joins (lines) connecting symmetric points are also mapped onto themselves, forming a pencil of fixed lines [1].  This property that fixed structures under the original symmetry also remain fixed under the transformation between the repeated patterns in the image is valid in general.  The eigenvalues of the transformation that represents the original repetition are not changed through conjugation with a perspectivity.  Hence, the same kind of fixed structures are found after the perspective skew.  We conclude that fixed structures form a good basis to build a grouping strategy.  This idea, propounded in more detail in [8], lies at the heart of our grouping strategy.  One can build a hierarchy of grouping types based on their fixed structures [8].  Taking all projectivities that keep a specific structure fixed yields a subgroup of the projectivities.  The subgroups that have a line of fixed points or a pencil of fixed lines are of particular interest.  These fixed structures both lift 5 degrees of freedom, yet only require two parameters to specify them.  This eases the detection of these grouping types, as their subgroups have invariants that are strictly simpler than general, projective invariants.  Also, these are the types of fixed structures that are easiest to find, as they correspond to non-accidental configurations.  In this paper we will restrict the discussion to the detection of these cases, and more in particular to repetitions that amount to planar homologies in the images.  If a projectivity has a line of fixed points it automatically also has a pencil of fixed lines and v. v.  Such transformations are called planar homologies [5,9].  A special case are the homologies that have the vertex of the pencil on the axis.  These are called elations [5,4].  Planar homologies occur often in images, e. g.  as the transformation between a planar shape and its shadow, between identical patterns in parallel planes, between the two halves of a mirror symmetric pattern (harmonic planar homologies), between identical patterns under a point symmetry or between coplanar, periodic patterns (elations).  2 A Grouping Strategy Our strategy towards geometry-based grouping, dedicated to finding repeated patterns that are related by planar homologies, is the following: step 1: find small regions of interest, that remain invariant under changing viewpoint and illumination step 2: find matches between these regions, i. e.  repeated patterns step 3: use region matches as input to a cascaded Hough transform, which yields candidate fixed structures (non-accidental alignments) step 4: test the validity of the fixed structures and find out the extent of the image regions that can be mapped onto each other by the corresponding transformation The work that comes closest to our approach is that by Schaffalitzky and Zisserman [4].  They detect coplanar, periodic structures by picking up elations that bring multiple basic features into correspondence.
