Invited presentation at SOFSEM'96; appeared in LNCS 1175 Learning in Order to Reason: The Approach
 Abstract Any theory aimed at understanding commonsense reasoning, the process that humans use to cope with the mundane but complex aspects of the world in evaluating everyday situations, should account for its flexibility, its adaptability, and the speed with which it is performed.  Current theories of reasoning, however, do not satisfy these requirements, a fact we attribute, at least partly, to their separation from learning.  While the central role of learning in cognition is widely acknowledged, most lines of research nevertheless study the phenomenon of "learning" separately from that of "reasoning".  The work presented here is motivated by the belief that learning is at the core of any attempt at understanding high level cognitive tasks.  A formal model for the study of reasoning is developed in which a learning component has a principal role, and its advantages over traditional formalisms for the study of reasoning are shown.  This paper presents an integrated theory of learning, knowledge representation and reasoning within a unified framework called Learning to Reason.  The Learning to Reason framework combines the interfaces to the world used by known learning models with a reasoning task and a performance criterion suitable for it.  It is shown that the framework efficiently supports ``more reasoning" than traditional approaches and at the same time matches our expectations of plausible patterns of reasoning.  Several results are presented to substantiate this claim, presenting cases where learning to reason about the world is feasible but either reasoning from a given representation of the world or learning representations of the world do not have efficient solutions.  Overall, this framework suggests an "operational" approach to reasoning, that is nevertheless rigorous and amenable to analysis.  As such, it may be a step toward a rigorous large-scale empirical study of learning and reasoning.  The paper presents work originally
