Evaluating Multiple Aspects of Coherence in Student Essays
 Abstract Criterion SM Online Essay Evaluation Service includes a capability that labels sentences in student writing with essay-based discourse elements (e. g. , thesis statements).  We describe a new system that enhances Criterion's capability, by evaluating multiple aspects of coherence in essays.  This system identifies features of sentences based on semantic similarity measures and discourse structure.  A support vector machine uses these features to capture breakdowns in coherence due to relatedness to the essay question and relatedness between discourse elements.  Intra-sentential quality is evaluated with rule-based heuristics.  Results indicate that the system yields higher performance than a baseline on all three aspects.  1 Overview This work is motivated by a need for advanced discourse analysis capabilities for writing instruction applications.  Criterion SM Online Essay Evaluation Service is an application for writing instruction which includes a capability to annotate sentences in student essays with discourse element labels.  These labels include the categories Thesis Statement, Main Idea, Supporting Idea, and Conclusion (Burstein et al. , 2003b).  Though it accurately annotates sentences with essay-based discourse labels, Criterion does not provide an evaluation of the expressive quality of the sentences that comprise a discourse segment.  What this means is that, on one hand, the system might accurately label a student's essay as having all of the typically expected discourse elements: thesis statement, 3 main ideas, supporting evidence linked to each main idea, and a conclusion.  As teachers have pointed out, however, an essay may have all of these discourse elements, but the quality of individual discourse elements may need improvement.  In this paper, we present a capability that captures expressive quality of sentences in the discourse segments of an essay.  For this work, we have defined expressive quality in terms of four aspects related to global and local essay coherence.  The first two dimensions capture global coherence, and the latter two relate to local coherence: a) relatedness to the essay question (topic), b) relatedness between discourse elements, c) intra-sentential quality, and d) sentence-relatedness within a discourse segment.  Each dimension represents a different aspect of coherence.  Essentially, the goal of the system is to be able to predict whether a sentence in a discourse segment has high or low expressive quality with regard to a particular coherence dimension.  We have deliberately developed an approach to essay coherence that is comprised of multiple dimensions, so that an instructional application may provide appropriate feedback to student writers, based on the system's prediction of high or low for each dimension.  For instance, sentences in the student's thesis statement may have a strong relationship to the essay topic, but may have a number of serious grammatical errors that make it hard to follow.  For this student, we may want to point out that on the one hand, the sentences in the thesis address the topic, but the thesis statement as a discourse segment might be more clearly stated if the grammar errors were fixed.  By contrast, the sentences that comprise the student's thesis statement may be grammatically correct, but only loosely related to the essay topic.  For this student, we would also want the system to provide appropriate feedback to, so that the student could revise the thesis statement text appropriately.  In earlier work, Foltz, Kintsch & Landauer (1998), and Wiemer-Hastings & Graesser (2000) have developed systems that also examine coherence in student writing.  Their systems measure lexical relatedness between text segments by using vector-based similarity between adjacent sentences.  This linear approach to similarity scoring is in line with the TextTiling scheme (Hearst and Plaunt, 1993; Hearst, 1997), which may be used to identify the subtopic structure of a text.  Miltsakaki and Kukich (2000) have also addressed the issue of establishing the coherence of student essays, using the Rough Shift element of Centering Theory.  Again, this previous work looks at the relatedness of adjacent text segments, and does not explore global aspects of text coherence.  Hierarchical models of discourse have been applied to the question of coherence (Mann and Thompson, 1986), but so far these have been more useful in language generation than in determining how coherent a given text is, or in identifying the specific problem, such as the breakdown of coherence in a document.  Our approach differs in fundamental ways from this earlier work that deals with student writing.  First, both Foltz et al.  (1998), Wiemer-Hastings and Graesser (2000), and Miltsakaki and Kukich (2000) assume that text coherence is linear.  They calculate the similarity between adjacent segments of text.  By contrast, our approach considers the discourse structure in the text, following Burstein et al.  (2003b).  Our method considers sentences with regard to their discourse segments, and how the sentences relate to other text segments both inside (such as the essay thesis) and outside (such as the essay topic) of a document.  This allows us to identify cases in which there may be a breakdown in coherence due to more global aspects of essay-based discourse structure.  Second, the previous work has used Latent Semantic Analysis as a semantic similarity measure (Landauer and Dumais, 1997).  We have adapted another vectorbased method of semantic representation: Random Indexing (Kanerva et al. , 2000; Sahlgren, 2001).  Another difference between our system and earlier systems is that we use essays manually annotated on the four coherence dimensions to train our system.  The final system employs a hybrid approach to classify the first two of the four coherence dimensions with a high or low quality rank.  For these dimensions, a support vector machine is used to model features derived from Random Indexing and from essay-based discourse structure information.  A third local coherence dimension component is driven by rule-based heuristics.  A fourth dimension related to coherence within a discourse segment cannot be classified due to a lack of data characterizing low expressive quality.  This is fully explained later in the paper.  2 Protocol Development and Human Annotation 2. 1 Protocol Development The development of this system required a corpus of human annotated essay data for modeling purposes.  In the end, the goal is to have the system make judgments similar to those made by a human with regard to ranking the coherence of an essay on four dimensions.  Therefore, we created a detailed protocol for annotating the expressive quality of essay-based discourse elements in essays with regard to four aspects related to global and local essay coherence.  This protocol was designed for the following purposes: 1.  To yield annotations that are useful for the purpose of providing students with feedback about the expressive relatedness of discourse elements in their essays, given four relatedness dimensions; 2.  To permit human annotators to achieve high levels of consistency during the annotation process; 3.  To produce annotations that have the potential of being derivable by computer programs through training on corpora annotated by humans.
