Signal Reconstruction from Zero-Crossings
 Abstract We present a method for recovering (to within a constant factor) periodic, octave band-limited signals given the times of the zero-crossings.  Recovery involves taking the singular-value decomposition of a size N \Theta 2M matrix, where N is the number of zero-crossings within one period and M is product of the octave bandwidth and the period length.  We also discuss approximate approaches which can be used to reconstruct aperiodic or very-long-period signals.  Our algorithm achieves an inversion of Logan's theorem in the case where such is possible.  1 Logan's Theorem Sampling theorems provide conditions under which continuous signals may be represented by countable sets of real numbers.  In the usual setting, we agree on a regular grid of time points and provide samples of the signal amplitude at those times.  The Nyquist-Shannon theorems tell us that a lowpass signal may be reconstructed exactly, so long as the times of samples are spaced at least as densely as half the period of the highest frequency.  However, we could also agree upon a regular grid of amplitude levels and provide the times at which the signal crossed those levels.  This has been dubbed implicit sampling by Bar-David [Bond and Cahn, 1958, Bar-David, 1974]; although there is no clear theory relating the frequency content of the signal and the number of levels required.  Logan's theorem [Logan, Jr. , 1977] addresses a special case of this general problem of signal reconstruction from level crossings.  It states that if a signal is band-limited to a single octave then the times of the zero crossings are sufficient to reconstruct the signal -to within a constant factor of course.  1 For Nyquist-style sampling (uniform 1 There are some additional important technical caveats.  The signal must also have in time), the reconstruction procedure is well known and involves simply convolving the given samples with a particular kernel (the sinc function) that performs the required interpolation.  However, to our knowledge no practical inversion scheme exists for Logan's theorem.  All strictly band-limited signals must be infinite in time.  Such signals are either periodic or aperiodic.  If an infinite signal is aperiodic, an infinite number of zero-crossing times must be measured and the signal itself requires an infinite amount of information to specify.  However, if an infinite signal is periodic, only a finite number of zero-crossing times (those within one period) need to be measured and the signal is entirely specified by one period.  Because Logan's paper also shows that signals with free zeros cannot be uniquely reconstructed from their zero-crossings, it is practical (and indeed meaningful) to consider reconstruction only of periodic signals with no free zeros.  In what follows, we address exactly this problem.  We present a method for recovering (to within a constant factor) periodic octave band-limited signals (with no free zeros) given the times of the zero-crossings within the period.  Recovery requires taking the singular-value decomposition of a size N \Theta 2M matrix, where N is the number of zero-crossings and M is product of the octave bandwidth and the period length.  We also discuss approximate approaches which can be used to reconstruct aperiodic or very-long-period signals.
