Got rhythm? Haptic-only lead and follow dancing
 Abstract.  This paper describes the design and implementation of a lead and follow dance to be performed with a human follower and PHANToM leader, or executed by two humans via two PHANToMs, reciprocally linked.  In some contexts, such as teaching calligraphic character writing, haptic-only communication of information has demonstrated limited eectiveness.  This project was inspired by the observation that experienced partner dance followers can easily decipher haptic-only cues, perhaps because of the structure of dancing, wherein a set of possible moves is known and changes between moves happen at times signalled by the music.  This work is a demonstration of dancing, meaning coordination of a randomly sequenced set of known movements to a musical soundtrack, with a PHANToM as a leader, and of a human leader and follower dancing via a dual PHANToM teleoperation system.  1 Background In numerous studies, human haptic and proprioceptive senses have been shown to lack the precision of visual perception.  For example, just noticeable dierences (JND's) for force perception are larger than those for visual perception [1].  Previous work on haptic interfaces between humans found evidence that haptic-only cooperation was inferior to visual-only cooperation and found no evidence that hapticplus-visual cooperation was superior to visual-only cooperation when the item to be communicated was an unknown Japanese calligraphic character [2].  However, experienced swing dance followers have demonstrated in our lab the ability to correctly identify moves while deprived by blindfold of visual information.  The distinction between these tasks is likely the highly structured nature of swing dance.  In social improvised swing dance, the leader choreographs for himself and his follower in realtime.  All swing dancers know a set of stereotypical eight-count moves.  The leader, then, needs only to communicate the selection of move from this finite alphabet, not the requested trajectory in its full detail.  To demonstrate haptic-only communication in a simpler setting than that of full-body motion, we designed a dance to be performed with one hand and arm using a PHANToM haptic device from Sensable Technologies.  We implemented a leader-follower dance to be executed between a human and a PHANToM device, or between two humans mediated by two PHANToM devices.  The primary goal is to investigate human-human and computer-human interaction strategies in the specific context of improvised dance, hence the system was designed to be faithful to the dancing model even at the risk of less transparent results.  Other examples of haptic motion coordination between robots and humans include a walking robot that can follow a person who takes its hand to lead it [3], and Hale's "sticky hands" tai chi demonstration between an anthropomorphic robot and a human [4].  In the latter, the human and robot did not have clearly defined roles as leader and follower, but the robot learned and categorized the human's movement patterns in order to generate movements.  2 Dancing PHANToM System A PHANToM is a programmable 3-D haptic device which presents a force at its stylus
