Segmentation using Eigenvectors: A Unifying View
 In this paper we give a uni#edtreatment of these algorithms, and show the close connections between them while highlighting their distinguishing features.  We then prove results on eigenvectors of block matrices that allow us to analyze the performance of these algorithms in simple grouping settings.  Finally, we use our analysis to motivate a variation on the existing methods that combines aspects from different eigenvector segmentation algorithms.  We illustrate our analysis with results on real and synthetic images.  Human perceiving a scene can often easily segment it into coherent segments or groups.  There has been a tremendous amount of effort devoted to achieving the same level of performance in computer vision.  In many cases, this is done by associating with each pixel a feature vector (e. g.  color, motion, texture, position) and using a clustering or grouping algorithm on these feature vectors.  Perhaps the cleanest approach to segmenting points in feature space is based on mixture models in which one assumes the data were generated bymultiple processes and estimates the parameters of the processes and the number of components in the mixture.  The assignment of points to clusters can then be easily performed by calculating the posterior probabilityofa point belonging to a cluster.  Despite the elegance of this approach, the estimation process leads to a notoriously difficult optimization.  The frequently used EM algorithm [3] often converges to a local maximum that depends on the initial conditions.  Recently,anumber of authors [11, 10, 8, 9, 2] have suggested alternative segmentation methods that are based on eigenvectors of the (possibly normalized) \affinity matrix".  Figure 1a shows two clusters of points and figure 1b shows the affinity matrix defined by: W (i; j)=e, d(x i ;x j )=2# 2 (1) with # a free parameter.  In this case wehave used d(x i ;x j )=kx i , x j k 2 but different definition of a#nities are possible.  The affinities do not even haveto obey the metric axioms (e. g.  [7]), we will only assume that d(x i ;x j )=d(x j ;x i ).  Note that wehave ordered the points so that all points belonging to the first cluster appear first and the points in the second cluster.  This helps the visualization of the matrices but does not change the algorithms --- eigenvectors of permuted matrices are the permutations of the eigenvectors of the original matrix.  From visual inspection, the affinity matrix contains information about the correct segmentation.  In the next section we review four algorithms that look at eigenvectors of affinity matrices.  We show that while seemingly quite different, these algorithms are closely related and all use dominant eigenvectors of matrices to perform segmentation.  However, these approaches use different matrices, focus on different eigenvectors and use a different method of going from the continuous eigenvectors to the discrete segmentation.  In section 2 we prove results on eigendecompositions of block matrices and use these results to analyze the behavior of these algorithms and motivate a new hybrid algorithm.  Finally, in section 3 we discuss the application of these algorithms to affinity matrices derived from images.
