Perceptually organized EM: A framework for motion segmentation that combines information about form and motion
 Abstract Recent progress in motion analysis has been achieved with systems that estimate global parameterized motion byintegrating multiple constraints.  The success of these approaches depends critically on the ability to segment constraints derived from different motions.  Hence the problems of motion estimation and segmentation are tightly coupled.  We believe it is impossible to solve these problems solely in the motion domain, and that mechanisms of spatial form analysis must be incorporated into the motion estimation procedure.  We present a new framework which allows the incorporation of form information in a graceful manner.  It combines concepts from perceptual organization with the powerful optimization technique of EM.  We show that the algorithm is guaranteed to decrease a cost function at every iteration, and that in the absence of form information the cost function reduces to the one minimized by EM.  We demonstrate that the approach can achieve good motion estimation and segmentation with challenging motion sequences.  Recent progress in motion analysis has been achieved with systems that estimate global parameterized motion [Black and Jepson, 1994, Wang and Adelson, 1994, Hsu et al. , 1994, Bergen et al. , 1992] These methods have advantages over local optic flow in that they overcome the local ill-posedness of the motion estimation problem by integrating multiple constraints.  The sucess of these approaches, however, depends critically on the ability to segment constraints derived from different motions.  Hence the problems of motion estimation and segmentation have become tightly coupled.  The joint solution of these problems remains difficult, even for scenes that are very simple.  Consider, for example, the scene shown in fig 1(a) (see also [Bergen et al. , 1990]).  Two bars of different grey shades are moving, one to the left and one to the right.  We will consider how several kinds of motion analyses treat this input.  First, the output of a standard least-squares optic flow routine is shown in fig.  1(b), as an arrow plot; the x and y components of velocity are shown in fig.  1(c) and (d) (velocities below some threshold confidence are set to zero, a b c d Figure 1: a A simple image sequence which causes problems for traditional motion estimation algorithms.  b Least squares optical flow shown as an arrow plot c Least squares optical flow horizontal component.  d Least squares optical #owvertical component.  the algorithm is an implementation of Lucas and Kanade (1981) modified according to [Simoncelli et al. , 1991]).  Although this sequence is a synthetic one, it illustrates problems that occur frequently in analyzing real sequences.  1.  The flow is underconstrained in regions containing extended contours.  2.  The T-junctions that occur where one contour crosses the other form spurious features that move with spurious upward velocities; moreover these features are assigned high confidence by standard techniques because they have \good" 2-D structure (the local estimation is overconstrained).  3.  The interiors of the bars, being textureless, haveno motion information, although one would like them to be filled with the motion assigned their contour.  But simply propagating the motion away from the contour will spread it into the exterior as well as the interior.  Even propagation along contours is problematic since the spurious T-junction motions will be propagated along with the correct corner motions.  4.  The flow field cannot explicitly convey the fact that v x v y v x v y abc e df Figure 2: (a) Normal flow (b) Constraint lines in velocity space (c)-(e) Unambiguous feature motion the two halves of the occluded bar are moving together in \common fate. " Indeed there is no information about grouping and segmentation in the flow field representation.  The shortcomings of local analysis can be ameliorated by accumulating constraints over larger regions as in several recent approaches (e. g.  [Black and Anandan, 1993]) but figure 2 shows that difficulties persist.  The normal flows along the ambiguous contours are shown in fig.  2(a).  The constraint lines may be accumulated into velocity space as shown in fig.  2(b).  There are four constraint lines, and their thickness corresponds to the number of votes.  Clearly there are four major motion candidates, two of which are correct (leftward and rightward), and two of which are incorrect (upward and downward).  The spurious upward motion has more votes than any other motion.  As an alternative, one might ignore the ambiguous contour motions and consider only the unambiguous motions of the features.  These are regions where the local regression matrix is non-singular.  As shown in fig.  2(c), (d), and (e), four such points move to the left, four move to the right, and four moveupward.  The upward motions are spurious but there is no waytoknow this by looking at the local regression matrix.  In velocity space the feature motions support three of the four motions that were supported by the normal motions including the spurious upward motion.  Another global approach is the iterativenulling technique used by Bergen et al.  (1990).  In this approach the entire image is warped by a parameterized flow field in an attempt to null one of the motions; the procedure finds the dominant motion, removes it, and proceeds to the next.  Success can be verified by aligning two frames and subtracting; the region undergoing the motion should be zeroed out.  Fig.  3 shows the results of nulling with the four candidate motions wehave described above.  The leftward and rightward motions, in fig.  3(a) and (b), successfully null much of the image.  However, the upward motion in fig.  3(c) is even more successful.  (The downward motion in fig.  3(d) is less successful).  The upward motion finds a large spurious object { the X { and tries to null it as a whole, as if it were abcd Figure 3: Results of nulling with the four candidate motions described above a.  leftward b.  rightward . cupward d.  downward.  The upward motion nulls the most pixels.  rigidly translating.  The model fails to fully explain the motion of either bar, but the model doesn't know about bars.  It only knows about pixels, and it nulls more pixels than any other single motion.  The problems with motion analysis may be summarized as follows.  Standard optic flow techniques move from one local representation (e. g.  local gradients) to another local representation (a flow field), and thus are limited in their abilitytointegrate information across an image.  Recent techniques use more sophisticated representations and allow more powerful integration of information.  However they still fall short of what is needed.  A successful approach will need to deal with such issues as occlusions, segmentation, contour ownership, and grouping.  That is to say,itis impossible to analyze motion without simultaneously analyzing static form.  Issues in perceptual organization are likely to be critical for further progress in motion processing.  Our goal is to introduce a new framework that will make use of recent advances in motion analysis and optimization, and will also allow us to incorporate form information in a graceful manner.  The optimization is based on Expectation Maximization (EM) [Dempster et al. , 1977], and we combine it with concepts from perceptual organization (PO).  We call the new approach POEM.  Since current understanding of PO is rapdily evolving, wehave designed the POEM to be flexible enough to take advantage of various new PO algorithms as they become available.
