Using D-separation to Calculate Zero Partial Correlations in Linear Models with Correlated Errors
 Abstract It has been shown in Spirtes(1995) that X and Y are d-separated given Z in a directed graph associated with a recursive or non-recursive linear model without correlated errors if and only if the model entails that r XY. Z = 0.  This result cannot be directly applied to a linear model with correlated errors, however, because the standard graphical representation of a linear model with correlated errors is not a directed graph.  The main result of this paper is to show how to associate a directed graph with a linear model L with correlated errors, and then use d-separation in the associated directed graph to determine whether L entails that a particular partial correlation is zero.  In a linear structural equation model (SEM) some partial correlations may be equal to zero for all values of the model's free parameters (for which the partial correlation is defined).  (When we refer to "all values" of the free parameters, we assume that there are no constraints upon the models parameters except for the coefficients and the correlations among the error variables that are fixed at zero. ) In this case we will say that the SEM linearly entails that the partial correlation is zero.  It has been shown in Spirtes(1995) that X and Y are d-separated given Z in a directed graph associated with a recursive or nonrecursive linear model with uncorrelated errors if and only if the model linearly entails that r XY. Z = 0.  This result cannot be directly applied to a linear model with correlated errors, however, because the standard graphical representation of a linear model with correlated errors is not a directed graph.  The main result of this paper is to show how to associate a directed graph with a linear model L with correlated errors, and then use d-separation in the associated directed graph to determine whether L linearly entails that a particular partial correlation is zero.  The standard graph terminology in this paper, the standard terminology for linear structural equation models, and the relationship between the two terminologies are described in the Appendix.  If G is the graph of SEM L with correlated errors, let Transform(G) be the graph resulting from replacing a double headed arrow between correlated errors e i and e j with a new latent variable T ij (i < j) and edges from T ij to X i and X j , and then removing the error terms from the graph.  See Figure 1.  A trek between X i and X j is an undirected path between X i and X j that contains no colliders.  If there is a trek X i T ij X j in Transform(G), we will say that X i and X j are d-adjacent in Transform(G).  A trek X j T ij X i is called a correlated error trek in Transform(G).  In Transform(G), a correlated error trek sequence is a sequence of vertices <X i , .  . . , X k } such that no pair of vertices adjacent in the sequence are identical, and for each pair of vertices X r and X s adjacent in the sequence, there is a correlated error trek between X r and X s .  For example in Figure 1, the sequence of vertices <
