The Mobile Robot RHINO
 Abstract--- Rhinowas the University of Bonn's entry in the 1994 AAAI mobile robot competition.  Rhino is a mobile robot designed for indoor navigation and manipulation tasks.  The general scientific goal of the Rhino project is the development and the analysis of autonomous and complex learning systems.  This paper briefly describes the major components of the Rhino control software, as they were exhibited at the competition.  It also sketches the basic philosophy of the Rhino architecture, and discusses some of the lessons that we learned during the competition.  I.  GENERAL OVERVIEW Rhino, shown in Figure 1, is a B21 mobile robot platform manufactured by Real World Interface Inc.  It is equipped with 24 sonar proximity sensors, a dual color camera system mounted on a pan/tilt unit, and two on-board i486 computers.  Sonar information is obtained at a rate of 1. 3 Hertz, and camera images are processed at a rate of 0. 7 Hertz.  Rhino communicates with external computers (two SUN Sparc stations) via a tetherless Ethernet link.  The Rhino project is generally concerned with the design of autonomous and complex learning systems [8].  The AAAI competition ended an initial six month period of software design.  Key features of Rhino's control software, as exhibited at the competition, are: ffl Autonomy.  Rhino operates completely autonomously.  It has been repeatedly operated for durations of up to one hour in populated office environments without human intervention.  ffl Learning.  To increase the flexibility of the software, learning mechanisms support the adaptation of the robot to its sensors and the environment.  For example, neural network learning is employed to interpret sonar measurements.  ffl Real-time operation.  In order to act continuously in real-time, any-time solutions [2] are employed wherever possible.  Any-time algorithms are able to make decisions regardless of the time spent for computation.  The more time is available, however, the better are the results.  ffl Reactive control and deliberation.  Rhino's navigation system integrates a fast, reactive on-board obstacle avoidance routine with knowledge- and computationintense map building and planning algorithms.  Rhino's software consists of a dozen different modules.  The interface modules (a base/sonar sensor interface, a camera interface and a speech interface) control the basic communication to and from the hardware components of the robot.  On top of these, a fast obstacle avoidance routine analyzes sonar measurements to avoid collisions with obstacles and walls at a speed of up to 90cm per second.  Global metric and topological maps are constructed on-the-fly using a neural network-based approach, combined with a database of maps showing typical rooms, doors and hallways.  Rhino employs a dynamic programming planner to explore unknown terrain and to navigate to arbitrary target locations.  It locates itself by continuously analyzing sonar information.  In addition, a fast vision module segments images from two color cameras, in order to find target objects and obstacles that block the path of the robot.  Rhino's control flow is monitored by an integrated task planner and a central user interface.  The integration of a dozen different software modules, which all exhibit different timing and response characteristics, requires a flexible scheme for the flow and synchronization of information.  The key principles for the design of Rhino's software are: Figure 1: The Rhino robot of
