The Rational Basis of Representativeness
 Why do people think that Linda, the politically active, single, outspoken, and very bright 31-year-old, is more likely to be a feminist bankteller than to be a bankteller, even though this is logically impossible? Why do we think that the sequence HHTHT is more likely than the sequence HHHHH to be produced by flipping a fair coin, even though both are equally likely? The standard answer in cognitive psychology (Kahneman & Tversky, 1972) is that our brains are designed to judge "representativeness", not probability: Linda is more representative of feminist banktellers than of banktellers, and HHTHT is more representative of flipping a fair coin than is HHHHH, despite anything that probability theory tells us.  Not only errors in probabilistic reasoning, but numerous other phenomena of categorization, comparison, and inference have been attributed to the influence of representativeness (or prototypicality or "goodness of example"; Mervis & Rosch, 1981; Osherson, Smith, Wilkie, Lopez, & Shafir, 1990; Rips, 1975).  However, a principled account of representativeness has not been easy to come by.  Its leading proponents (Kahneman & Tversky, 1996; Mervis & Rosch, 1981) have asserted that representativeness should be defined only operationally in terms of people's judgments; an a priori, analytic definition need not be given.  Critics have countered that this concept is too vague to serve as an explanation of intuitive probability judgment (Gigerenzer, 1996).  This paper presents a framework for constructing rational models of representativeness, based on a Bayesian analysis of what makes an observation a good example of a category or process.  The goal is to identify precisely one sense of representativeness and show that it has a rational basis in normative principles of inductive reasoning.  We will first point out some shortcomings of previous accounts based on likelihood or similarity, and show how a Bayesian approach can overcome those problems.  We will then compare the quantitative predictions of Bayesian, likelihood, and similarity models on two sets of representativeness judgments.  Previous approaches Likelihood.  In trying to relate intuitions about representativeness to rational statistical inferences, a natural starting point is the concept of likelihood.  Let d denote some observed data, such as a sequence of coin tosses, and h denote some hypothesis about the source of d, such as flipping a fair coin.  The probability of observing d given that h is true, P(d
