Workshop Programme Computer-Supported Mathematical Theory Development
 Mathematical reasoning tools, such as computer algebra systems, theorem provers, decision procedures, etc. , are increasingly employed in mathematics and engineering.  Also large repositories of formalized mathematics are currently emerging.  It is nevertheless the case that the actual pragmatics of mathematics is still to be characterized as mainly pen and paper based.  One reason is that still no convincing systems exist that provide a sufficiently integrated support for the usual work phases of a mathematician, e. g.  from initial conception and organization of ideas up to the final publication in a journal article.  A special focus of the workshop is on computer-support for the development of mathematical theories.  Mathematical theory development describes the formulation, organization, manipulation, and maintenance of mathematical content.  Support for adequate interaction with the (human) mathematician is mandatory in this context.  Thus, computer-supported mathematical theory development comprises: .  the formulation of mathematical statements in a computer-processable form, .  computer-support in processing mathematical content; depending on the content, this can mean "proving", "computing", "solving", "visualizing", "checking", "simulating", "conjecturing", etc.  .  the systematic organization and maintenance in and the powerful retrieval of mathematical knowledge from computer-accessible media, .  the management of change in the development of mathematical knowledge, .  the publication and presentation of mathematical material using new and/or wellestablished computer-based publication or presentation formats, and .  the interaction between the human mathematician and the supporting software.  The workshop addresses the design and implementation of frameworks aiming at integrated support for the entire process of theory development.  Clearly, there is still a big gap between the systems envisioned and the systems already available and this gap has to be overcome in the future.  Therefore also partial solutions are welcome if their relevance for the bigger vision can be illustrated.
