Grouping Contours by Iterated Pairing Network
 Abstract We describe in this paper a network that performs grouping of image contours.  The input to the net are fragments of image contours, and the output is the partitioning of the fragments into groups, together with a saliency measure for each group.  The grouping is based on a measure of overall length and curvature.  The network decomposes the overall optimization problem into independent optimal pairing problems performed at each node.  The resulting computation maps into a uniform locally connected network of simple computing elements.  1 The Problem: Contour Grouping A problem that often arises in visual information processing is the linking of contour fragments into optimal groups.  For example, certain subsets of contours spontaneously form perceptual groups, as illustrated in Fig.  1, and are often detected immediately without scanning the image in a systematic manner.  Grouping process of this type are likely to play an important role in object recognition by segmenting the image and selecting image structures that are likely to correspond to objects of interest in the scene.  We propose that some form of autonomous grouping is performed at an early stage based on geometrical characteristics, that are independent of the identity of objects to be selected.  The grouping process is governed by the notion of saliency in a way that priority is given to forming salient groups at the expense of potentially less salient ones.  This general notion can again be illustrated by Fig.  1; it appears that certain groups spontaneously emerge, while grouping decisions concerning the less salient parts of the image may remain unresolved.  As we shall see, the computation below exhibits a similar behavior.  We define a grouping of the image contours as the formation of a set of disjoint Figure 1: Contours that spontaneously form perceptual groups with various degrees of saliency.  On the left is an edge image of a plane surrounded by a car, a house, trees and texture.  The image on the right contains three circles, having decreasing degrees of saliency, in a background of randomly placed and oriented segments.  groups, each corresponding to a curve that may have any number of gaps, and whose union covers all the contour fragments in the image.  Given a function F (A) that measures some desired property of a group A, we would like to find a disjoint set of groups fA 1 ; :::; Amg that maximizes P i F (A i ) over all possible groupings.  Our definition of the problem is related to, but not identical with, problems studied in the past under headings of "perceptual organization", "segmentation", "cueing" and ``figure-ground separation".  In our definition of grouping, local grouping decisions based on collinearity of neighboring edge segments may be overridden in favor of more global decisions that are governed by the overall saliency of the groups.  The paper introduces a novel grouping method having the following properties: (i) the grouping optimizes an overall saliency measure, (ii) the optimization problem is mapped onto a uniform locally connected network of simple computing elements, and (iii) the network's architecture and its computation are different in several respects from traditional neural network models.  2 Optimal Grouping For the purpose of grouping it is convenient to consider the image as a graph of edge elements.  The vertices of the graph correspond to image pixels, and the arcs to elementary edge fragments.  The input to the grouping problem is a contour image, represented by a subset E r of the elements in the graph.  A path in the graph corresponds to a contour in the image having any number of gaps.  This implies that the grouping process implicitly bridges across gaps.  This filling-in process is critical to any grouping scheme as demonstrated by the circles in Fig.  1.  The emphasis in this paper is on 1-D chains of elements such as objects' bounding contours.  Grouping is therefore a collections of chains of A 1 ; :::; Am such that A i `` A j = ; i 6= j and [ i A i ' E r .  To define an optimal grouping we will define a function F (A) that measures the quality of a group A.  An optimal grouping is then a grouping that maximizes P m i=1 F (A i ) over all possible groupings of the elements.
