On the representation of object structure in human vision: evidence from differential priming of shape and location
 Abstract Theories of object representation can be classified as structural, holistic or hybrid, depending on their approach to the mereology and compositionality of shapes.  We tested the predictions of some of the current theories in three experiments, by quantifying the effects of various priming cues on response times to 3D objects.  In experiment 1, there were two possible locations for the stimulus components: left-right and top-bottom.  The prime could be identical to the stimulus, identical in location but with different parts, identical in the complement of differently located parts, or altogether different.  Both location and part identity effects were significant.  In experiment 2 we added a part-neutral (empty frame) prime condition; the effect of location, but not of part, remained significant.  In experiment 3, which included an additional location-neutral prime condition, only the location effect, again, was significant.  These findings are not entirely compatible either with the structural description theories of representation (which predict priming by "disembodied" parts or geons) or with the holistic theories (which do not predict priming by ``shapeless" location on its own).  They may be interpreted in terms of a hybrid theory, according to which conjunctions of shape and location are explicitly represented, and therefore amenable to priming.  1 The Problem of Representation The nature of the memory trace left by perceived objects in the human visual system is a fascinating problem, whose solution would lead both to a better understanding of vision in the brain, and to the development of better artificial visual systems.  From a computational standpoint, the Problem of Representation of object shapes has several distinct aspects.  For example, any computational model of object recognition must explain how to represent objects internally in such a manner that the variability of their appearance caused by changing viewing conditions (such as viewpoint or illumination) will not disrupt recognition (Ullman, 1996).  In theorizing about human vision, this consideration led to the emergence of two classes of models.  On the one hand, there are models that postulate essentially viewpoint-invariant representations, claiming that human performance in recognition does not, by and large, depend on viewpoint (Biederman, 1987; Biederman and Gerhardstein, 1993; Biederman and Gerhardstein, 1995).  On the other hand, there are models that posit viewpoint-dependent representations, motivated by the increasingly extensive psychophysical evidence in favor of viewpoint-dependent performance in a variety of cases (Bulthoff et al. , 1995; Newell and Findlay, 1997; Newell, 1998; Jolicoeur and Humphrey, 1998).  In the present psychophysical study, we examine another issue concerning representation: how is object structure --- in particular, familiar shapes in new configurations --- represented and processed by the human visual system? Our decision to consider the problem of novel objects rather than new views is motivated by two considerations.  First, due to the recent advances in the theory of recognition (Ullman, 1996), the computational problem of compensating for viewpoint-related changes seems now tractable.  Dealing with new shapes (rather than new views of familiar shapes) is, therefore, the next challenge to be taken on now (Edelman, 1997).  Second, comparing the predictions of current models of recognition with observer performance on novel objects should help us distinguish between the various theories, including those that vie for offering the best model of recognition across viewpoints.  Thus, the results of this study can be fed back into the main theoretical debate about the Problem of Representation.  2 The representation of novel objects --- candidate models The difficulties facing any attempt to settle major issues concerning cognitive representations empirically have been highlighted repeatedly in the past; see, e. g. , (Anderson, 1978; Barsalou, 1990).  In view of the caveats mentioned by these authors (e. g. , the inseparability of the effects of representation and of processing), we attempt to distinguish among concrete, algorithm- or mechanism-level models, rather than among abstract, computational-level theories.  To that end, we proceed to formulate the models that are to be compared, filling in the algorithmic details where these are not available in the original formulation of the model in the literature.  2. 1 The Standard Structural Model (SSM) The first family of models we consider is based on the notion of structural decomposition: object shapes are described in terms of relatively few generic components, joined by spatial relationships chosen from an equally small fixed set.  The representation of novel objects is made possible through the standardization of the primitives (components and their relationships): if these are sufficiently varied, a great many shapes can be described, just as tens of thousands of spoken words can be generated using a small number of phonemes as components (Biederman, 1987).  A typical structural theory, Biederman's (1987) Recognition By Components (RBC), 1 postulates a set of 30 or so primitive shapes (geons), claimed to be easily detected in images due to their nonaccidental properties.  The latter are 3D features that are almost always (that is, barring an accident of viewpoint) preserved by the imaging (projection) process (Lowe and Binford, 1985).  A representative example of such a feature is a pair of parallel lines; because a chance image alignment of two segments that are in fact not parallel in 3D is unlikely (Richards and Jepson, 1992), two parallel lines in the image are a good indicator of the presence of a 3D geon such as a cylinder "out there" in the scene.  To be able to deal with novel objects, a model based on structural descriptions must form the representation of the whole in terms of its parts dynamically ("on the fly"), for each shape it encounters.  The implementation of the RBC theory described by Hummel and Biederman (1992) is an example of a model that binds the parts to each other dynamically.  It is important to note that this implementation includes special relational units dedicated to the binding operation, over 1 This, in fact, is a variant of a structural decomposition theory usually attributed to (Marr and Nishihara, 1978) and popularized as a psychological model by Biederman.
