Canonical views in object representation and recognition
 Abstract Human performance in the recognition of 3D objects, as measured by response times and error rates, frequently depends on the orientation of the object with respect to the observer.  We investigated the dependence of response time (RT) and error rate (ER) on stimulus orientation for a class of random wire-like objects.  First, we found no evidence for universally valid canonical views: the best view according to one subject's data was often hardly recognized by other subjects.  Second, a subject by subject analysis showed that the RT/ER scores were not linearly dependent on the shortest angular distance in 3D to the best view, as predicted by the mental rotation theories of recognition.  Rather, the performance was significantly correlated with an image-plane feature by feature deformation distance between the presented view and the best (shortest-RT and lowest-ER) view.  Our results suggest that measurement of image-plane similarity to a few (subject-specific) feature patterns is a better model than mental rotation for the mechanism used by the human visual system to recognize objects across changes in their 3D orientation.  1 Understanding the effects of viewpoint change in object recognition nition 1. 1 General background The appearance of a three-dimensional object (that is, the pattern formed by its projection onto the retina of an eye or onto the imaging plane of a camera) depends on the point of view of the observer.  The ability of the human visual system to recognize a familiar object viewed from an unfamiliar perspective is impressive, and has been termed object constancy, by analogy with other perceptual constancies.  However, this constancy is far from perfect.  Perceiving the shape of an object irrespective of the viewing conditions such as its orientation in space and its distance from the observer frequently incurs a certain information-processing cost, over and above what it takes to recognize the same object in its most familiar appearance.  This additional processing cost is reflected in longer response times and in higher error rates evoked by randomly chosen views of the object, as compared to certain so-called canonical views (Palmer, Rosch and Chase, 1981).
