Integrating Kernel Methods Into a Knowledge-based Approach to Evidence-based Medicine
 Operational protocols are a valuable means for quality control.  However, developing operational protocols is a highly complex and costly task.  We present an integrated approach involving both intelligent data analysis and knowledge acquisition from experts that supports the development and validation of operational protocols.  The aim is to lower development cost through the use of machine learning and at the same time ensure high quality standards for the protocol through empirical validation.  We demonstrate our approach of integrating expert knowledge with data driven techniques based on our effort to develop an operational protocol for the hemodynamic system.  1 Introduction An abundance of information is generated during the process of critical care.  Much of this information can now be captured and stored using clinical information systems (CIS) that have become commercially available for use in intensive care over the last years.  These systems provide for a complete medical documentation at the bedside and their clinical usefulness and efficiency has been shown repeatedly [6, 7, 11].  While databases with more than 2,000 separate patient-related variables are now available for further analysis [8], the multitude of variables presented at the bedside even without a CIS precludes medical judgement by humans.  A physician may be confronted with more than 200 variables in the critically ill during a typical morning round [21].  We know, however, that even an experienced physician is often not able to develop a systematic response to any problem involving more than seven variables [18].  Moreover, humans are limited in their ability to estimate the degree of relatedness between only two variables [12].  This problem is most pronounced in the evaluation of the measurable effect of a therapeutic intervention.  Personal bias, experience, and a certain expectation toward the respective intervention may distort an objective judgement [4].  These arguments motivate the use of decision support systems.  Clinical decision support aims at providing health care professionals with therapy guidelines directly at the bed-side.  This should enhance the quality of clinical care, since the guidelines sort out high value practices from those that have little or no value.  The goal of decision support is to supply the best recommendation under all circumstances [22].  The computerized protocol of care can take into account more aspects of the patient than a physician can accommodate.  It is not disturbed by circumstances or hospital constraints.  It bridges the gap between low-level numerical measurements (the level of the equipment) and high-level qualitative principles (the level of medical reasoning).  While knowledge-based systems have mostly been applied for diagnosis and therapy planning (e. g.  [25], [16]), some systems also aim at on-line patient monitoring [5, 17, 22].  Methods that have proved their value in handling low-frequency patient data are not applicable for on-line monitoring [17].  Quantitative measurements and qualitative reasoning have to be integrated in a system that recommends interventions in real-time.  The numerical measurements of the patients' vital signs have to be abstracted into qualitative terms of high abstraction.  The aspect of time has to be handled both at the level of measurements and the level of expert knowledge [3, 14, 17, 25].  In the expert's reasoning, time becomes the relation between time intervals, abstracting from the exact duration of, e. g. , an increasing heart rate, and focusing on tendencies of other parameters (e. g. , cardiac output) within overlapping time intervals.  One of the big obstacles to the more frequent implementation of decision support systems is the tedious and time-consuming task of developing the knowledge base.  The decision support system for respiratory care at the LDS Hospital, Salt Lake City, USA [22], for instance, has been developed in about 25 person years.  The method of guideline development itself is not supported by a computer system.  Mechanisms of temporal abstraction and reasoning presuppose manually designed models or ontologies [3, 17, 25].  Why not use techniques of knowledge discovery and statistical time series analysis in order to ease the process of guideline generation? Machine learning and statistical analysis have been applied in building-up diagnostical systems successfully (e. g. , [15]).  We now want to exploit the huge amount of data for the development of guidelines for on-line monitoring.  Our task is to build a decision support system for on-line hemodynamic monitoring in the critically ill.  We do not aim at modeling the actual physician's behavior.  Imitating the actual interventions made by physicians is not the goal.  Actual behavior is influenced by the overall hospital situation, e. g. , how long is the physician on duty, how many patients require attention at the same time.  Machine learning from patients` data could lead to a knowledge base that mirrors such disturbing effects.  Therefore, the learned decision rules have to be checked by additional rules about effects of drug and fluid administration.  Our approach is to combine statistics, knowledge acquisition, and machine learning.  Our aim is to develop a method for guideline generation that is faster and more reliable than current methods.
