Zoneout: Regularizing RNNs by Randomly Preserving Hidden Activations.
Describing Videos by Exploiting Temporal Structure.
Multi-Prediction Deep Boltzmann Machines.
Generative Adversarial Nets.
An empirical evaluation of deep architectures on problems with many factors of variation.
Describing Multimedia Content Using Attention-Based Encoder-Decoder Networks.
Deep Learning of Representations.
Scaling Up Spike-and-Slab Models for Unsupervised Feature Learning.
Adversarially Learned Inference.
On the Challenges of Physical Implementations of RBMs.
Delving Deeper into Convolutional Networks for Learning Video Representations.
Challenges in Representation Learning: A Report on Three Machine Learning Contests.
An Actor-Critic Algorithm for Sequence Prediction.
A Spike and Slab Restricted Boltzmann Machine.
Unsupervised Feature Learning and Deep Learning: A Review and New Perspectives
Representation Learning: A Review and New Perspectives.
A Generative Model of Terrain for Autonomous Navigation in Vegetation.
Metric-Free Natural Gradient for Joint-Training of Boltzmann Machines
Using Descriptive Video Services to Create a Large Data Source for Video Annotation Research.
Representation and Timing in Theories of the Dopamine System.
Tempered Markov Chain Monte Carlo for training of Restricted Boltzmann Machines.
Task Loss Estimation for Sequence Prediction.
Discriminative Regularization for Generative Models.
On Tracking The Partition Function.
First Result on Arabic Neural Machine Translation.
Video Description Generation Incorporating Spatio-Temporal Features and a Soft-Attention Mechanism.
The Spike-and-Slab RBM and Extensions to Discrete and Sparse Data Distributions.
Show, Attend and Tell: Neural Image Caption Generation with Visual Attention.
The rat as particle filter.
Similarity and Discrimination in Classical Conditioning: A Latent Variable Account.
Why Does Unsupervised Pre-training Help Deep Learning?
Estimating or Propagating Gradients Through Stochastic Neurons for Conditional Computation.
Recurrent Batch Normalization.
A Controller Recognizer Framework: How necessary is recognition for control?
Deconstructing the Ladder Network Architecture.
ReSeg: A Recurrent Neural Network for Object Segmentation.
Hierarchical Neural Network Generative Models for Movie Dialogues.
Modeling Temporal Structure in Classical Conditioning.
EmoNets: Multimodal deep learning approaches for emotion recognition in video.
Unsupervised and Transfer Learning Challenge: a Deep Learning Approach.
Learning Distributed Representations from Reviews for Collaborative Filtering.
Describing Multimedia Content using Attention-based Encoder-Decoder Networks.
The Statistical Inefficiency of Sparse Coding for Images (or, One Gabor to Rule them All)
Joint Training of Deep Boltzmann Machines
Dynamic Capacity Networks.
Challenges in Representation Learning: A report on three machine learning contests.
Disentangling Factors of Variation for Facial Expression Recognition.
Multiresolution Recurrent Neural Networks: An Application to Dialogue Response Generation.
Maxout Networks.
Interacting Markov Random Fields for Simultaneous Terrain Modeling and Obstacle Detection.
A Hierarchical Latent Variable Encoder-Decoder Model for Generating Dialogues.
A bistable computational model of recurring epileptiform activity as observed in rodent slice preparations.
Adaptive Parallel Tempering for Stochastic Maximum Likelihood Learning of RBMs
Joint Training Deep Boltzmann Machines for Classification
A Recurrent Latent Variable Model for Sequential Data.
ReNet: A Recurrent Neural Network Based Alternative to Convolutional Networks.
Challenges in representation learning: A report on three machine learning contests.
Deep Tempering.
Generating Factoid Questions With Recurrent Neural Networks: The 30M Factoid Question-Answer Corpus.
Maxout Networks
Timing and Partial Observability in the Dopamine System.
Model Uncertainty in Classical Conditioning.
Unsupervised Models of Images by Spikeand-Slab RBMs.
An Infinite Factor Model Hierarchy Via a Noisy-Or Mechanism.
Texture Modeling with Convolutional Spike-and-Slab RBMs and Deep Extensions
Brain Tumor Segmentation with Deep Neural Networks.
Spike-and-Slab Sparse Coding for Unsupervised Feature Discovery
Disentangling Factors of Variation via Generative Entangling
Generative Adversarial Networks.
An Empirical Investigation of Catastrophic Forgeting in Gradient-Based Neural Networks.
An empirical analysis of dropout in piecewise linear networks.
Variance Reduction in SGD by Distributed Importance Sampling.
Large-Scale Feature Learning With Spike-and-Slab Sparse Coding.
Texture Modeling with Convolutional Spike-and-Slab RBMs and Deep Extensions.
Combining modality specific deep neural networks for emotion recognition in video.
Movie Description.
Efficient EM Training of Gaussian Mixtures with Missing Data
Building End-To-End Dialogue Systems Using Generative Hierarchical Neural Network Models.
On Training Deep Boltzmann Machines
