Censoring Representations with an Adversary.
Training Deep Convolutional Neural Networks to Play Go.
Test-retest reliability of structural brain networks from diffusion MRI.
Increasing the Capacity of a Hopfield Network without Sacrificing Functionality.
Multi-period Trading Prediction Markets with Connections to Machine Learning.
Dynamic Structure Super-Resolution.
Bayesian Inference in Sparse Gaussian Graphical Models.
The Supervised Hierarchical Dirichlet Process.
Sparse Instrumental Variables (SPIV) for Genome-Wide Studies.
Generalised Propagation for Fast Fourier Transforms with Partial or Missing Data.
The Grouped Author-Topic Model for Unsupervised Entity Resolution.
A Topic Model for Melodic Sequences.
Single subject fMRI test-retest reliability metrics and confounding factors.
Image Modeling with Position-Encoding Dynamic Trees.
Machine Learning Markets.
Machine Learning Markets
Cosine Transform Priors for Enhanced Decoding of Compressed Images.
Neuronal Adaptation for Sampling-Based Probabilistic Inference in Perceptual Bistability.
Dynamic Trees: A Structured Variational Method Giving Efficient Propagation Rules.
Dynamic Positional Trees for Structural Image Analysis.
Extracting Motion Primitives from Natural Handwriting Data.
Aggregation Under Bias: Rényi Divergence Aggregation and Its Implementation via Machine Learning Markets.
Discriminative Mixtures of Sparse Latent Fields for Risk Management.
A Primitive Based Generative Model to Infer Timing Information in Unpartitioned Handwriting Data.
Continuous Relaxations for Discrete Hamiltonian Monte Carlo.
Comparing Probabilistic Models for Melodic Sequences.
A Modified Spreading Algorithm for Autoassociation in Weightless Neural Networks.
Tract shape modelling provides evidence of topological change in corpus callosum genu during normal ageing.
Hallucinations in Charles Bonnet Syndrome Induced by Homeostasis: a Deep Boltzmann Machine Model.
Continuous Time Particle Filtering for fMRI.
Mixture Regression for Covariate Shift.
Stochastic Parallel Block Coordinate Descent for Large-Scale Saddle Point Problems.
Towards a Neural Statistician.
A Probabilistic Model-Based Approach to Consistent White Matter Tract Segmentation.
Learning Structural Equation Models for fMRI.
Reproducibility of tract segmentation between sessions using an unsupervised modelling-based approach.
The Coloured Noise Expansion and Parameter Estimation of Diffusion Processes.
Series Expansion Approximations of Brownian Motion for Non-Linear Kalman Filtering of Diffusion Processes.
Covariance-Controlled Adaptive Langevin Thermostat for Large-Scale Bayesian Sampling.
Modelling motion primitives and their timing in biologically executed movements.
The supervised hierarchical Dirichlet process.
Particle Smoothing in Continuous Time: A Fast Approach via Density Estimation.
Probabilistic inference for solving discrete and continuous state Markov Decision Processes.
MFDTs: Mean Field Dynamic Trees.
The basins of attraction of a new Hopfield learning rule.
Teaching Deep Convolutional Neural Networks to Play Go.
Adaptive Stochastic Primal-Dual Coordinate Descent for Separable Saddle Point Problems.
Isoelastic Agents and Wealth Updates in Machine Learning Markets.
A Hierarchical Generative Model of Recurrent Object-Based Attention in the Visual Cortex.
Dynamic Trees: A Structured Variational Method Giving Efficient Propagation Rules
Charles Bonnet Syndrome: Evidence for a Generative Model in the Cortex?
Renewal Strings for Cleaning Astronomical Databases.
The 2005 PASCAL Visual Object Classes Challenge.
Evaluation of a pre-surgical functional MRI workflow: From data acquisition to reporting.
