Blocks That Shout: Distinctive Parts for Scene Classification.
Understanding deep image representations by inverting them.
Simultaneous Object Detection and Ranking with Weak Supervision.
Vlfeat: an open and portable library of computer vision algorithms.
A Complexity-Distortion Approach to Joint Pattern Alignment.
Descriptor Learning Using Convex Optimisation.
Local Features, All Grown Up.
Deep Structured Output Learning for Unconstrained Text Recognition.
The truth about cats and dogs.
Localizing Objects with Smart Dictionaries.
Efficient additive kernels via explicit feature maps.
AdaBoost.
Generalized RBF feature maps for Efficient Detection.
Understanding image representations by measuring their equivariance and equivalence.
Automatic Discovery and Optimization of Parts for Image Classification.
Instance Normalization: The Missing Ingredient for Fast Stylization.
Boosting Invariance and Efficiency in Supervised Learning.
Deep Face Recognition.
Factorized appearances for object detection.
Learning feed-forward one-shot learners.
Structured output regression for detection with partial truncation.
Weakly Supervised Deep Detection Networks.
A Compact and Discriminative Face Track Descriptor.
Cats and dogs.
Fisher Vector Faces in the Wild.
Objects in Context.
MatConvNet: Convolutional Neural Networks for MATLAB.
Learning equivariant structured output SVM regressors.
Fully-Trainable Deep Matching.
KALMANSAC: Robust Filtering by Consensus.
Synthetic Data for Text Localisation in Natural Images.
Integrated perception with recurrent multi-task neural networks.
Features for Recognition: Viewpoint Invariance for Non-Planar Scenes.
Reading Text in the Wild with Convolutional Neural Networks.
Oxford-IIIT TRECVID 2010 - Notebook paper.
Sparse kernel approximations for efficient classification and detection.
Knowing a Good Feature When You See It: Ground Truth and Methodology to Evaluate Local Features for Recognition.
Understanding Objects in Detail with Fine-Grained Attributes.
Quick Shift and Kernel Methods for Mode Seeking.
Warped Convolutions: Efficient Invariance to Spatial Transformations.
Joint data alignment up to (lossy) transformations.
Building the View Graph of a Category by Exploiting Image Realism.
Semantic Part Segmentation with Deep Learning.
Texture Networks: Feed-forward Synthesis of Textures and Stylized Images.
Visualizing Deep Convolutional Neural Networks Using Natural Pre-Images.
Viewpoint Induced Deformation Statistics and the Design of Viewpoint Invariant Features: Singularities and Occlusions.
Efficient Additive Kernels via Explicit Feature Maps.
Deep Inside Convolutional Networks: Visualising Image Classification Models and Saliency Maps.
Synthetic Data and Artificial Neural Networks for Natural Scene Text Recognition.
Class segmentation and object localization with superpixel neighborhoods.
Fine-Grained Visual Classification of Aircraft.
Deep Filter Banks for Texture Recognition, Description, and Segmentation.
Learning the semantic structure of objects from Web supervision.
Deep Features for Text Spotting.
Return of the Devil in the Details: Delving Deep into Convolutional Nets.
Moving Forward in Structure From Motion.
Speeding up Convolutional Neural Networks with Low Rank Expansions.
Relaxed matching kernels for robust image comparison.
Pylon Model for Semantic Segmentation.
Understanding Deep Image Representations by Inverting Them.
A coarse-to-fine approach for fast deformable object detection.
Multiple kernels for object detection.
Describing Textures in the Wild.
Visualizing Deep Convolutional Neural Networks Using Natural Pre-images.
R-CNN minus R.
Understanding the Fisher Vector: a multimodal part model.
Fully-Convolutional Siamese Networks for Object Tracking.
The devil is in the details: an evaluation of recent feature encoding methods.
Deep Fisher Networks for Large-Scale Image Classification.
Deep convolutional filter banks for texture recognition and segmentation.
Salient Deconvolutional Networks.
Learning Local Feature Descriptors Using Convex Optimisation.
Learning Covariant Feature Detectors.
Self-similar Sketch.
Deep filter banks for texture recognition, description, and segmentation.
MatConvNet - Convolutional Neural Networks for MATLAB.
Deep filter banks for texture recognition and segmentation.
On-the-fly specific person retrieval.
