Constructing and mining web-scale knowledge graphs: KDD 2014 tutorial.
Fast Kernel Classifiers with Online and Active Learning.
Towards Open-Text Semantic Parsing via Multi-Task Learning of Structured Embeddings
Key-Value Memory Networks for Directly Reading Documents.
Solving multiclass support vector machines with LaRank.
SGD-QN: Careful Quasi-Newton Stochastic Gradient Descent.
Deep Sparse Rectifier Neural Networks.
Online (and Offline) on an Even Tighter Budget.
Learning End-to-End Goal-Oriented Dialog.
The Goldilocks Principle: Reading Children's Books with Explicit Memory Representations.
Translating Embeddings for Modeling Multi-relational Data.
Erratum: SGDQN is Less Careful than Expected.
Combining Two and Three-Way Embedding Models for Link Prediction in Knowledge Bases.
Unsupervised and Transfer Learning under Uncertainty - From Object Detections to Scene Categorization.
A semantic matching energy function for learning with multi-relational data - Application to word-sense disambiguation.
Combining Two And Three-Way Embeddings Models for Link Prediction in Knowledge Bases.
Large-scale Simple Question Answering with Memory Networks.
Joint Learning of Words and Meaning Representations for Open-Text Semantic Parsing.
A comparison of discriminative classifiers for web news content extraction.
Introduction to the special issue on learning semantics.
Evaluating Prerequisite Qualities for Learning End-to-End Dialog Systems.
Unsupervised Learning of Semantics of Object Detections for Scene Categorization.
Composing Relationships with Translations.
Towards Understanding Situated Natural Language.
Effective Blending of Two and Three-way Interactions for Modeling Multi-relational Data.
Open Question Answering with Weakly Supervised Embedding Models.
Label Ranking under Ambiguous Supervision for Learning Semantic Correspondences.
Constructing and Mining Web-Scale Knowledge Graphs: WWW 2015 Tutorial.
Question Answering with Subgraph Embeddings.
A latent factor model for highly multi-relational data.
A Semantic Matching Energy Function for Learning with Multi-relational Data
Guarantees for Approximate Incremental SVMs.
Memory Networks.
