A Generative Approach for Image-Based Modeling of Tumor Growth.
Fast and accurate approximate inference of transcript expression from RNA-seq data.
Gaussian process modelling of latent chemical species: applications to inferring transcription factor activities.
Agglomerative Independent Variable Group Analysis.
Post-nonlinear Independent Component Analysis by Variational Bayesian Learning.
Bayes Blocks: An Implementation of the Variational Bayesian Building Blocks Framework.
Accelerating Cyclic Update Algorithms for Parameter Estimation by Pattern Searches.
State Inference in Variational Bayesian Nonlinear State-Space Models.
Exploration and retrieval of whole-metagenome sequencing samples.
Natural Conjugate Gradient in Variational Inference.
Empirical evidence of the linear nature of magnetoencephalograms.
Analysis of differential splicing suggests different modes of short-term splicing regulation.
Identifying targets of multiple co-regulating transcription factors from expression time-series by Bayesian model comparison.
Blind separation of nonlinear mixtures by variational Bayesian learning.
Approximate Riemannian Conjugate Gradient Learning for Fixed-Form Variational Bayes.
Bayes Blocks: An Implementation of the Variational Bayesian Building Blocks Framework
Identifying differentially expressed transcripts from RNA-seq data with biological variation.
Agglomerative independent variable group analysis.
Unsupervised Variational Bayesian Learning of Nonlinear Models.
Inference of RNA Polymerase II Transcription Dynamics from Chromatin Immunoprecipitation Time Course Data.
On the inconsistency of $\ell_1$-penalised sparse precision matrix estimation.
Missing-Feature Reconstruction With a Bounded Nonlinear State-Space Model.
Compact Modeling of Data Using Independent Variable Group Analysis.
Using Kernel PCA for Initialisation of Variational Bayesian Nonlinear Blind Source Separation Method.
Efficient differentially private learning improves drug sensitivity prediction.
Variational learning and bits-back coding: an information-theoretic view to Bayesian learning.
A gradient-based algorithm competitive with variational Bayesian EM for mixture of Gaussians.
Gaussian process test for high-throughput sequencing time series: application to experimental evolution.
tigre: Transcription factor inference through gaussian process reconstruction of expression for bioconductor.
