Dead reckoning from the pocket - An experimental study.
Building Statistical Shape Spaces for 3D Human Modeling.
Wearable Sensing to Annotate Meeting Recordings.
Pattern Recognition - 32nd DAGM Symposium, Darmstadt, Germany, September 22-24, 2010. Proceedings
Cross-Articulation Learning for Robust Detection of Pedestrians.
Semi-Supervised Learning on a Budget: Scaling Up to Large Datasets.
How good are detection proposals, really?.
Transinformation of object recognition and its application to viewpoint planning.
Antikollisionssystem PRORETA - Integrierte Lösung zur Vermeidung von Überholunfällen.
Filtered channel features for pedestrian detection.
Explicit Occlusion Reasoning for 3D Object Detection.
Improved Image Boundaries for Better Video Segmentation.
Multi-View and 3D Deformable Part Models.
Subgraph decomposition for multi-target tracking.
Taking a deeper look at pedestrians.
A comparison of position estimation techniques using occupancy grids.
Classifier based graph construction for video segmentation.
Coming to grips with the objects we grasp: detecting interactions with efficient wrist-worn sensors.
Context-driven model switching for visual tracking.
Context-Aware Notification for Wearable Computing.
EgoCap: Egocentric Marker-less Motion Capture with Two Fisheye Cameras.
Reconnaissance d'objets utilisant des histogrammes multidimensionnels de champs réceptifs. (Object Recognition using Multidimensional Receptive Field Histograms).
3D Pictorial Structures Revisited: Multiple Human Pose Estimation.
Workshop on Generic Object Recognition and Categorization.
Wearable sensing to annotate meeting recordings.
Functional Object Class Detection Based on Learned Affordance Cues.
A database for fine grained activity detection of cooking activities.
Probabilistic object recognition using multidimensional receptive field histograms.
Evaluating knowledge transfer and zero-shot learning in a large-scale setting.
Segmentation Based Multi-Cue Integration for Object Detection.
First International Workshop on Video Segmentation - Panel Discussion.
Towards improving trust in context-aware systems by displaying system confidence.
Scalable Nonlinear Embeddings for Semantic Category-based Image Retrieval.
Learning Using Privileged Information: SVM+ and Weighted SVM.
An Implicit Shape Model for Combined Object Categorization and Segmentation.
Computer Vision Systems, 7th International Conference on Computer Vision Systems, ICVS 2009, Liège, Belgium, October 13-15, 2009, Proceedings
How Good are Local Features for Classes of Geometric Objects.
A shape-based object class model for knowledge transfer.
Introducing a weighted non-negative matrix factorization for image classification.
Evaluating the Effects of Displaying Uncertainty in Context-Aware Applications.
Learning semantic object parts for object categorization.
Towards Robust Multi-cue Integration for Visual Tracking.
Teaching 3D geometry to deformable part models.
Cooperative Augmentation of Smart Objects with Projector-Camera Systems.
Multi-sensor Activity Context Detection for Wearable Computing.
Detecting Context in Distributed Sensor Networks by Using Smart Context-Aware Packets.
Strong Appearance and Expressive Spatial Models for Human Pose Estimation.
Model-free tracking of cars and people based on color regions.
Scalable Nonlinear Embeddings for Semantic Category-Based Image Retrieval.
Improving person detection using synthetic training data.
Scalable Recognition of Daily Activities with Wearable Sensors.
Monocular Visual Scene Understanding: Understanding Multi-Object Traffic Scenes.
Toward Recognition of Short and Non-repetitive Activities from Wearable Sensors.
Efficient ConvNet-based marker-less motion capture in general scenes with a low number of cameras.
Fine-grained Activity Recognition with Holistic and Pose based Features.
What makes for effective detection proposals?
Vision based victim detection from unmanned aerial vehicles.
How good are detection proposals, really?
What Is Holding Back Convnets for Detection?
Robust Object Detection with Interleaved Categorization and Segmentation.
Ambient Intelligence, European Conference, AmI 2007, Darmstadt, Germany, November 7-10, 2007, Proceedings
Translating Video Content to Natural Language Descriptions.
Tutor-based learning of visual categories using different levels of supervision.
An information-theoretic approach to combining object models.
Bridging the Gap between Virtual and Physical Games Using Wearable Sensors.
Discovery of activity patterns using topic models.
Enabling Efficient Time Series Analysis for Wearable Activity Data.
A Dynamic Conditional Random Field Model for Joint Labeling of Object and Scene Classes.
Realtime Personal Positioning System for Wearable Computers.
Using rhythm awareness in long-term activity recognition.
Person Recognition in Personal Photo Collections.
Recognition without Correspondence using Multidimensional Receptive Field Histograms.
Applying wearable sensors to avalanche rescue.
Grounding Action Descriptions in Videos.
Towards Personalized Mobile Interruptibility Estimation.
Multi-view Pictorial Structures for 3D Human Pose Estimation.
Filtered Channel Features for Pedestrian Detection.
Scale-Invariant Object Categorization Using a Scale-Adaptive Mean-Shift Search.
Learning people detection models from few training samples.
Zero-Shot Learning with Structured Embeddings.
Less Contact: Heart-Rate Detection Without Even Touching the User.
Back to the Future: Learning Shape Models from 3D CAD Data.
A convnet for non-maximum suppression.
Coherent Multi-sentence Video Description with Variable Level of Detail.
Browsing patient records during ward rounds with a body worn gyroscope.
Combining Language Sources and Robust Semantic Relatedness for Attribute-Based Knowledge Transfer.
Building Intelligent Environments with Smart-Its.
Semantic Modeling of Natural Scenes for Content-Based Image Retrieval.
Grounding of Textual Phrases in Images by Reconstruction.
A Multi-cut Formulation for Joint Segmentation and Tracking of Multiple Objects.
User independent, multi-modal spotting of subtle arm actions with minimal training data.
Transinformation for Active Object Recognition.
Multi-Person Tracking by Multicut and Deep Matching.
DeepCut: Joint Subset Partition and Labeling for Multi Person Pose Estimation.
Whac-A-Bee: a sensor network game.
Daily Routine Recognition through Activity Spotting.
An Analysis of Sensor-Oriented vs. Model-Based Activity Recognition.
Towards human motion capturing using gyroscopeless orientation estimation.
Detecting Surgical Tools by Modelling Local Appearance and Global Shape.
A Semantic Typicality Measure for Natural Scene Categorization.
Multi-Cue Zero-Shot Learning with Strong Supervision.
3D object class detection in the wild.
3D2PM - 3D Deformable Part Models.
Multi-cue onboard pedestrian detection.
Learning using privileged information: SV M+ and weighted SVM.
Smart-Its Friends: A Technique for Users to Easily Establish Connections between Smart Artefacts.
RALF: A reinforced active learning formulation for object class recognition.
Faceless Person Recognition; Privacy Implications in Social Media.
The Cityscapes Dataset for Semantic Urban Scene Understanding.
What is Holding Back Convnets for Detection?
Faceless Person Recognition: Privacy Implications in Social Media.
Video Segmentation with Superpixels.
Proactive Instructions for Furniture Assembly.
Efficient Output Kernel Learning for Multiple Tasks.
Performance evaluation and optimization for content-based image retrieval.
Sustained logging and discrimination of sleep postures with low-level, wrist-worn sensors.
People-tracking-by-detection and people-detection-by-tracking.
Pedestrian Detection in Crowded Scenes.
Multi-target Tracking in Crowded Scenes.
Interleaving Object Categorization and Segmentation.
3D Pictorial Structures for Multiple Human Pose Estimation.
Generative Adversarial Text to Image Synthesis.
Hierarchical Combination of Object Models using Mutual Information.
The 2005 PASCAL Visual Object Classes Challenge.
Computer Vision - ECCV 2014 - 13th European Conference, Zurich, Switzerland, September 6-12, 2014, Proceedings, Part VII
Loss Functions for Top-k Error: Analysis and Insights.
Articulated people detection and pose estimation: Reshaping the future.
Visual Object Class Recognition combining Generative and Discriminative Methods.
Location- and Context-Awareness, Third International Symposium, LoCA 2007, Oberpfaffenhofen, Germany, September 20-21, 2007, Proceedings
A Performance Evaluation of Single and Multi-feature People Detection.
Weakly Supervised Recognition of Daily Life Activities with Wearable Sensors.
Position Estimation Using Principal Components of Range Data.
An Interactive Computer Vision System DyPERS: Dynamic Personal Enhanced Reality System.
All for one or one for all? Combining heterogeneous features for activity spotting.
Exploring semi-supervised and active learning for activity recognition.
How Many Classifiers Do I Need?
Revisiting 3D geometric models for accurate object shape and pose.
Monocular 3D scene understanding with explicit occlusion reasoning.
Probabilistic Object Recognition and Localization.
Vision-Based Detection of Mobile Smart Objects.
A new approach to enable gesture recognition in continuous data streams.
Object Classification Based on Visual Classes.
Multiple Human Pose Estimation with Temporally Consistent 3D Pictorial Structures.
Transfer Learning in a Transductive Setting.
Query-Dependent Performance Optimization for Vocabulary-Supported Image Retrieval.
Sensing and monitoring professional skiers.
Sliding-Windows for Rapid Object Class Localization: A Parallel Technique.
Pictorial structures revisited: People detection and articulated pose estimation.
Weakly Supervised Semantic Labelling and Instance Segmentation.
Skin Patch Detection in Real-World Images.
An Exploration of Daily Routine Modeling Based on Bluetooth and GSM-Data.
Pattern Recognition - 35th German Conference, GCPR 2013, Saarbrücken, Germany, September 3-6, 2013. Proceedings
Multi-object Tracking Based on a Modular Knowledge Hierarchy.
Multi-Aspect Detection of Articulated Objects.
Discriminative Appearance Models for Pictorial Structures.
Detailed 3D Representations for Object Recognition and Modeling.
Using Local Context To Improve Face Detection.
Analyzing Appearance and Contour Based Methods for Object Categorization.
Fine-Grained Categorization for 3D Scene Understanding.
Interleaved Object Categorization and Segmentation.
Computer Vision - ECCV 2014 - 13th European Conference, Zurich, Switzerland, September 6-12, 2014, Proceedings, Part I
What helps where - and why? Semantic relatedness for knowledge transfer.
Learning Must-Link Constraints for Video Segmentation Based on Spectral Clustering.
Towards Less Supervision in Activity Recognition from Wearable Sensors.
Towards robust multi-cue integration for visual tracking.
Script Data for Attribute-Based Recognition of Composite Activities.
Multi-View Priors for Learning Detectors from Sparse Viewpoint Data.
A psychophysically plausible model for typicality ranking of natural scenes.
Computer Vision - ECCV 2014 - 13th European Conference, Zurich, Switzerland, September 6-12, 2014, Proceedings, Part V
Multiple Object Class Detection with a Generative Model.
A Convnet for Non-maximum Suppression.
Computer vision systems.
Coherent Multi-Sentence Video Description with Variable Level of Detail.
Hierarchical Support Vector Random Fields: Joint Training to Combine Local and Global Features.
Pervasive Computing, 4th International Conference, PERVASIVE 2006, Dublin, Ireland, May 7-10, 2006, Proceedings
The Long-Short Story of Movie Description.
Integrating Representative and Discriminative Models for Object Category Detection.
Beyond Position Awareness.
Computer Vision for Wearable Computing.
Towards Unsupervised Discovery of Visual Categories.
Saliency of Interest Points under Scale Changes.
Scalable Multitask Representation Learning for Scene Classification.
Recognizing Fine-Grained and Composite Activities using Hand-Centric Features and Script Data.
Computer Vision - ECCV 2014 - 13th European Conference, Zurich, Switzerland, September 6-12, 2014, Proceedings, Part III
Monocular 3D Scene Modeling and Inference: Understanding Multi-Object Traffic Scenes.
In Good Shape: Robust People Detection based on Appearance and Shape.
New features and insights for pedestrian detection.
ADL recognition based on the combination of RFID and accelerometer sensing.
A Unified Video Segmentation Benchmark: Annotation, Metrics and Analysis.
Detection and Tracking of Occluded People.
How Computer Vision Can Help in Outdoor Positioning.
Local Features for Object Class Recognition.
Recognizing context for annotating a live life recording.
Automatic discovery of meaningful object parts with latent CRFs.
Towards systematic research of multimodal interfaces for non-desktop work scenarios.
Towards Robust Perception and Model Integration.
Kamerabasierte Fußgängerdetektion.
What Makes for Effective Detection Proposals?
DeeperCut: A Deeper, Stronger, and Faster Multi-Person Pose Estimation Model.
On Performance Characterization and Optimization for Image Retrieval.
Recognizing Fine-Grained and Composite Activities Using Hand-Centric Features and Script Data.
Multi-graph Based Semi-supervised Learning for Activity Recognition.
Unsupervised Discovery of Structure in Activity Data Using Multiple Eigenspaces.
Pedestrian Detection: An Evaluation of the State of the Art.
Where to look next and what to look for.
3D Object Recognition from Range Images using Local Feature Histograms.
Movie Description.
Decomposition, discovery and detection of visual categories using topic models.
Integrating Visual Context and Object Detection within a Probabilistic Framework.
A Comparison of Position Estimation Techniques Using Occupancy Grids.
A Model for Human Interruptability: Experimental Evaluation and Automatic Estimation from Wearable Sensors.
DeeperCut: A Deeper, Stronger, and Faster Multi-person Pose Estimation Model.
Generating Visual Explanations.
Sensory Augmented Computing and its Potential for Human-Computer Interaction (Sensorunterstützte Computersysteme und deren Potenzial für die Mensch-Maschine-Interaktion).
Pick Your Neighborhood - Improving Labels and Neighborhood Structure for Label Propagation.
3D Object Detection with Multiple Kinects.
Comprehensive Colour Image Normalization.
South by South-East or Sitting at the Desk: Can Orientation be a Place?
Discriminative structure learning of hierarchical representations for object detection.
Top-k Multiclass SVM.
Multi Activity Recognition Based on Bodymodel-Derived Primitives.
The Light Field Oracle.
Towards Distributed Awareness -- An Artifact Based Approach.
Analyzing Non-Negative Matrix Factorization for Image Classification.
Ten Years of Pedestrian Detection, What Have We Learned?
Visual Contextual Awareness in Wearable Computing.
An Evaluation of Local Shape-Based Features for Pedestrian Detection.
A Dataset for Movie Description.
Natural Scene Retrieval Based on a Semantic Modeling Step.
Taking a Deeper Look at Pedestrians.
Computer Vision Systems, Second International Workshop, ICVS 2001 Vancouver, Canada, July 7-8, 2001, Proceedings
Weakly Supervised Object Boundaries.
Multi-cue pedestrian classification with partial occlusion handling.
Performance prediction for vocabulary-supported image retrieval.
A tutorial on human activity recognition using body-worn inertial sensors.
Towards Robust Pedestrian Detection in Crowded Image Sequences.
Demo: I-Pic: A Platform for Privacy-Compliant Image Capture.
Learning Deep Representations of Fine-grained Visual Descriptions.
Extracting Structures in Image Collections for Object Recognition.
2007's Wearable Computing Advances.
3D Object Class Detection in the Wild.
Occlusion Patterns for Object Class Detection.
A dataset for Movie Description.
Towards Multi-View Object Class Detection.
Poselet Conditioned Pictorial Structures.
Active Metric Learning for Object Recognition.
Disparity Statistics for Pedestrian Detection: Combining Appearance, Motion and Stereo.
Spectral Graph Reduction for Efficient Image and Streaming Video Segmentation.
Vocabulary-Supported Image Retrieval.
Visual Object Class Recognition.
Efficient Clustering and Matching for Object Class Recognition.
Activity Recognition from Sparsely Labeled Data Using Multi-Instance Learning.
Keynote lecture 1: "Visual scene understanding - It's time to address it again".
Remember and transfer what you have learned - recognizing composite activities based on activity spotting.
Computer Vision - ECCV 2014 - 13th European Conference, Zurich, Switzerland, September 6-12, 2014, Proceedings, Part II
2D Human Pose Estimation: New Benchmark and State of the Art Analysis.
Fine-Grained Activity Recognition with Holistic and Pose Based Features.
Learning People Detectors for Tracking in Crowded Scenes.
I-Pic: A Platform for Privacy-Compliant Image Capture.
Evaluation of output embeddings for fine-grained image classification.
Monocular 3D pose estimation and tracking by detection.
Object Recognition Using Multidimensional Receptive Field Histograms.
How Far are We from Solving Pedestrian Detection?
Pedestrian detection: A benchmark.
A Semantic World Model for Urban Search and Rescue Based on Heterogeneous Sensors.
Computer Vision - ECCV 2014 - 13th European Conference, Zurich, Switzerland, September 6-12, 2014, Proceedings, Part IV
Position estimation using principal components of range data.
Computer Vision - ECCV 2014 - 13th European Conference, Zurich, Switzerland, September 6-12, 2014, Proceedings, Part VI
Latent Embeddings for Zero-shot Classification.
