Improving online incremental speaker adaptation with eigen feature space MLLR.
Classifying Relations by Ranking with Convolutional Neural Networks.
A phrase-level machine translation approach for disfluency detection using weighted finite state transducers.
Empirical Study on Deep Learning Models for Question Answering.
Pointing the Unknown Words.
Stereo hidden Markov modeling for noise robust speech recognition.
Clustering of bootstrapped acoustic model with full covariance.
Constrained Phrase-based Translation Using Weighted Finite State Transducer.
Improved Neural Network-based Multi-label Classification with Better Initialization Leveraging Label Co-occurrence.
IBM Mastor: Multilingual Automatic Speech-To-Speech Translator.
Simple Question Answering by Attentive Convolutional Neural Network.
Applying log linear model based context dependent machine translation techniques to grapheme-to-phoneme conversion.
Statistical Machine Translation for Speech: A Perspective on Structures, Learning, and Decoding.
Applying deep learning to answer selection: A study and an open task.
An EM algorithm for SCFG in formal syntax-based translation.
WuKong: automatically detecting and localizing bugs that manifest at large system scales.
Combining many alignments for speech to speech translation.
A Context Sensitive Offloading Scheme for Mobile Cloud Computing Service.
Reinforcing language model for speech translation with auxiliary data.
Diversify and Combine: Improving Word Alignment for Machine Translation on Low-Resource Languages.
Using Features from Topic Models to Alleviate Over-Generation in Hierarchical Phrase-Based Translation.
The Impact of ASR on Speech-to-Speech Translation Performance.
Speechfind: an experimental on-line spoken document retrieval system for historical audio archives.
A novel algorithm for rapid speaker adaptation based on structural maximum likelihood eigenspace mapping.
Rapid integration of Parts of Speech information to improve reordering model for English-Farsi Speech to Speech Translation.
Orion: Scaling Genomic Sequence Matching with Fine-Grained Parallelization.
Recent advances of IBM's handheld speech translation system.
Improved Representation Learning for Question Answer Matching.
Two Methods for Extending Hierarchical Rules from the Bilingual Chart Parsing.
Intelligent injection liquid particle inspection machine based on two-dimensional Tsallis Entropy with modified pulse-coupled neural networks.
An investigation of heuristic, manual and statistical pronunciation derivation for Pashto.
Vrisha: using scaling properties of parallel programs for bug detection and localization.
Mitigating interference in cloud services by middleware reconfiguration.
Anchor Graph: Global Reordering Contexts for Statistical Machine Translation.
Debugging high-performance computing applications at massive scales.
Flexible and Efficient Hypergraph Interactions for Joint Hierarchical and Forest-to-String Decoding.
Enlisting the Ghost: Modeling Empty Categories for Machine Translation.
Soft Syntactic Constraints for Hierarchical Phrase-Based Translation Using Latent Syntactic Distributions.
ABCNN: Attention-Based Convolutional Neural Network for Modeling Sentence Pairs.
A study of bootstrapping with multiple acoustic features for improved automatic speech recognition.
Multiresolution Recurrent Neural Networks: An Application to Dialogue Response Generation.
Stereo-based stochastic mapping with context using probabilistic PCA for noise robust automatic speech recognition.
Finding Needle in a Million Metrics: Anomaly Detection in a Large-scale Computational Advertising Platform.
Tree-based Convolution for Sentence Modeling.
Towards integrated machine translation using structural alignment from syntax-augmented synchronous parsing.
Discriminative acoustic model using eigenspace mapping for rapid speaker adaptation.
Applying Deep Learning to Answer Selection: A Study and An Open Task.
Efficient representation and fast look-up of Maximum Entropy language models.
Rapid speaker adaptation using multi-stream Structural Maximum Likelihood Eigenspace Mapping.
Hidden Markov Acoustic Modeling With Bootstrap and Restructuring for Low-Resourced Languages.
Audio stream phrase recognition for a national gallery of the spoken word: "one small step".
A vision-based intelligent inspector for wine production.
Dependency-based Convolutional Neural Networks for Sentence Embedding.
Abstractive Text Summarization using Sequence-to-sequence RNNs and Beyond.
An Empirical Study on Improving Hierarchical Phrase-Based Translation Using Alignment Features.
Leveraging Sentence-level Information with Encoder LSTM for Natural Language Understanding.
Discriminative Training of 150 Million Translation Parameters and Its Application to Pruning.
Statistical natural language generation for speech-to-speech machine translation systems.
Unsupervised Features from Text for Speech Synthesis in a Speech-to-Speech Translation System.
Efficient Hyper-parameter Optimization for NLP Applications.
Two-Neighbor Orientation Model with Cross-Boundary Global Contexts.
Language modeling structures in audio transcription for retrieval of historical speeches.
Towards speech Translation of Non Written Languages.
Folsom: a Fast and Memory-Efficient Phrase-Based Approach to Statistical Machine Translation.
What is Hidden among Translation Rules.
LSTM-based Deep Learning Models for non-factoid answer selection.
Attentive Pooling Networks.
Improved structural maximum likelihood eigenspace mapping for rapid speaker adaptation.
Sequence-to-Sequence RNNs for Text Summarization.
Acoustic Modeling with Bootstrap and Restructuring Based on Full Covariance.
Bifurcations of travelling wave solutions for the generalized (2+1)-dimensional Boussinesq-Kadomtsev-Petviashvili equation.
Towards High Performance LVCSR in Speech-to-Speech Translation System on Smart Phones.
A Machine Vision Intelligent Inspector for Injection.
ABHRANTA: Locating Bugs that Manifest at Large System Scales.
Rapid discriminative acoustic model based on eigenspace mapping for fast speaker adaptation.
Multi-Scale Shaft Parts Image Edge Detection and Measurement Based on Wavelet Transform.
MARS: A Statistical Semantic Parsing and Generation-Based Multilingual Automatic tRanslation System.
Medical Synonym Extraction with Concept Space Models.
Acoustic modeling with bootstrap and restructuring for low-resourced languages.
Advances in syntax-based Malay-English speech translation.
Good, Better, Best: Choosing Word Embedding Context.
Unsupervised Deep Belief Features for Speech Translation.
The IBM speech-to-speech translation system for smartphone: Improvements for resource-constrained tasks.
A Corpus Level MIRA Tuning Strategy for Machine Translation.
A Power Mean Based Algorithm for Combining Multiple Alignment Tables.
Class-based named entity translation in a speech to speech translation system.
Total variation based ampoule injection image denoising with universal gravity theory.
Distributed Deep Learning for Answer Selection.
Enriching SCFG rules directly from efficient bilingual chart parsing.
WuKong: effective diagnosis of bugs at large system scales.
On Efficient Coupling of ASR and SMT for Speech Translation.
Optimizing Word Alignment Combination For Phrase Table Training.
Lexicalized reordering in multiple-graph based statistical machine translation.
Two-way speech-to-speech translation on handheld devices.
Efficient audio stream segmentation via the combined T
SpeechFind: Advances in Spoken Document Retrieval for a National Gallery of the Spoken Word.
Unsupervised audio stream segmentation and clustering via the Bayesian information criterion.
Structured Memory for Neural Turing Machines.
