A high-performance Cantonese keyword search system.
The modulation spectrogram: in pursuit of an invariant representation of speech.
Deep scattering spectra with deep neural networks for LVCSR tasks.
Deep convolutional neural networks for LVCSR.
Advances in speech transcription at IBM under the DARPA EARS program.
Large vocabulary conversational speech recognition with the extended maximum likelihood linear transformation (EMLLT) model.
Boosted MMI for model and feature-space discriminative training.
Improvements to deep convolutional neural networks for LVCSR.
Distributed speech recognition using noise-robust MFCC and traps-estimated manner features.
An empirical study of confusion modeling in keyword search for low resource languages.
Discriminative feature-space transforms using deep neural networks.
Multilingual representations for low resource speech recognition and keyword search.
The IBM 2004 Conversational Telephony System for Rich Transcription.
Very deep multilingual convolutional neural networks for LVCSR.
Large vocabulary conversational speech recognition with a subspace constraint on inverse covariance matrices.
Machine translation in continuous space.
Pseudo pitch synchronous analysis of speech with applications to speaker recognition.
The IBM speech activity detection system for the DARPA RATS program.
The IBM 2009 GALE Arabic speech transcription system.
Scalable Minimum Bayes Risk Training of Deep Neural Network Acoustic Models Using Distributed Hessian-free Optimization.
The IBM Attila speech recognition toolkit.
Low-rank matrix factorization for Deep Neural Network training with high-dimensional output targets.
Robust speech recognition using the modulation spectrogram.
Evaluation of Proposed Modifications to MPE for Large Scale Discriminative Training.
Recognizing reverberant speech with RASTA-PLP.
A Comparison between Deep Neural Nets and Kernel Acoustic Models for Speech Recognition.
Developing speech recognition systems for corpus indexing under the IARPA Babel program.
Robust speech recognition in Noisy Environments: The 2001 IBM spine evaluation system.
Exploiting diversity for spoken term detection.
Very Deep Multilingual Convolutional Neural Networks for LVCSR.
A comparison between deep neural nets and kernel acoustic models for speech recognition.
Parallel deep neural network training for LVCSR tasks using blue gene/Q.
Auto-encoder bottleneck features using deep belief networks.
Order-free spoken term detection.
Advances in Arabic Speech Transcription at IBM Under the DARPA GALE Program.
Performance improvements through combining phone- and syllable-scale information in automatic speech recognition.
Parallel Deep Neural Network Training for Big Data on Blue Gene/Q.
The IBM 2006 Gale Arabic ASR System.
SPERT-II: A Vector Microprocessor System and its Application to Large Problems in Backpropagation Training.
A hybrid HMM/traps model for robust voice activity detection.
Automated Quality Monitoring for Call Centers using Speech and NLP Technologies.
Automatic speech recognition performance on a voicemail transcription task.
Discriminative Training of Decoding Graphs for Large Vocabulary Continuous Speech Recognition.
Efficient spoken term detection using confusion networks.
System combination and score normalization for spoken term detection.
New types of deep neural network learning for speech recognition and related applications: an overview.
Data Augmentation for deep neural network acoustic modeling.
Lattice-based optimization of sequence classification criteria for neural-network acoustic modeling.
Recent improvements in neural network acoustic modeling for LVCSR in low resource languages.
Trends and advances in speech recognition.
Automated Quality Monitoring in the Call Center with ASR and Maximum Entropy.
Fast decoding for open vocabulary spoken term detection.
Improving deep neural network acoustic modeling for audio corpus indexing under the IARPA babel program.
An architecture for rapid decoding of large vocabulary conversational speech.
Arccosine kernels: Acoustic modeling with infinite neural networks.
Learning filter banks within a deep neural network framework.
Toward domain-independent conversational speech recognition.
Mixtures of Bayesian joint factor analyzers for noise robust automatic speech recognition.
Making Deep Belief Networks effective for large vocabulary continuous speech recognition.
Rapid and inexpensive development of speech action classifiers for natural language call routing systems.
Efficient one-vs-one kernel ridge regression for speech recognition.
Audio-visual deep learning for noise robust speech recognition.
Incorporating information from syllable-length time scales into automatic speech recognition.
Artificial intelligence research at IBM.
Spert-II: A Vector Microprocessor System.
How to Scale Up Kernel Methods to Be As Good As Deep Neural Nets.
An evaluation of a nonlinear feature transformation for conversational speech recognition.
Discriminative graph training for ultra-fast low-footprint speech indexing.
Compact kernel models for acoustic modeling via random feature selection.
The IBM 2008 GALE Arabic speech transcription system.
Deep Convolutional Neural Networks for Large-scale Speech Tasks.
Improvements to filterbank and delta learning within a deep neural network framework.
Recent improvements in speech recognition performance on large vocabulary conversational speech (voicemail and switchboard).
Optimization Techniques to Improve Training Speed of Deep Neural Networks for Large Speech Tasks.
fMPE: Discriminatively Trained Features for Speech Recognition.
Data augmentation for deep convolutional neural network acoustic modeling.
Improving training time of Hessian-free optimization for deep neural networks using preconditioning and sampling.
Contructing Ensembles of ASR Systems Using Randomized Decision Trees.
Data Augmentation for Deep Neural Network Acoustic Modeling.
Monte Carlo model-space noise adaptation for speech recognition.
Tied-Mixture Language Modeling in Continuous Space.
Improvements to Deep Convolutional Neural Networks for LVCSR.
The IBM 2011 GALE Arabic speech transcription system.
Automatic keyword selection for keyword search development and tuning.
Accelerating Hessian-free optimization for Deep Neural Networks by implicit preconditioning and sampling.
A multi-region deep neural network model in speech recognition.
