Learning Intermediate-Level Representations of Form and Motion from Natural Movies.
Learning sparse, overcomplete representations of time-varying natural images.
Building a better probabilistic model of images by factorization.
Locally Competitive Algorithms for Sparse Approximation.
Neuroanatomical image alignment.
Wavelets, blur, and the sources of variability in the amplitude spectra of natural scenes.
DeepMovie: Using Optical Flow and Deep Neural Networks to Stylize Movies.
Learning Sparse Multiscale Image Representations.
Bilinear models of natural images.
Learning Sparse Image Codes using a Wavelet Pyramid Architecture.
Learning efficient linear codes for natural images: the roles of sparseness, overcompleteness, and statistical independence.
Data Sharing for Computational Neuroscience.
Modeling neural population data.
Highly overcomplete sparse coding.
Learning transport operators for image manifolds.
Hierarchical Isosurface Segmentation Based on Discrete Curvature.
Sparse Coding via Thresholding and Local Competition in Neural Circuits.
Modeling Higher-Order Correlations within Cortical Microcolumns.
Group Sparse Coding with a Laplacian Scale Mixture Prior.
Learning Sparse Codes with a Mixture-of-Gaussians Prior.
Learning Horizontal Connections in a Sparse Coding Model of Natural Images.
How Close Are We to Understanding V1?
A multiscale dynamic routing circuit for forming size- and position-invariant object representations.
An Unsupervised Algorithm For Learning Lie Group Transformations
Learning Sparse Codes for Hyperspectral Imagery.
Inferring Sparse, Overcomplete Image Codes Using an Efficient Coding Framework.
Neurobiology, Psychophysics, and Computational Models of Visual Attention.
Learning Sparse Representations of Depth.
Learning sparse representations of depth
Discovering Hidden Factors of Variation in Deep Networks.
Lie Group Transformation Models for Predictive Video Coding.
Learning Transformational Invariants from Natural Movies.
A nonlinear Hebbian network that learns to detect disparity in random- dot stereograms.
Image denoising using learned overcomplete representations.
