Reinforcement learning in the presence of rare events.
An information-theoretic approach to curiosity-driven reinforcement learning.
Wikispeedia: An Online Game for Inferring Semantic Distances between Concepts.
A formal framework for robot learning and control under model uncertainty.
Correlation of clinical parameters with cardiorespiratory behavior in successfully extubated extremely preterm infants.
A Canonical Form for Weighted Automata and Applications to Approximate Minimization.
Compressed Least-Squares Regression on Sparse Spaces.
An Expectation-Maximization Algorithm to Compute a Stochastic Factorization From Data.
Policy Gradient Methods for Off-policy Control.
Sparse Distributed Memories for On-Line Value-Based Reinforcement Learning.
Learning and Planning with Timing Information in Markov Decision Processes.
Approximate Predictive Representations of Partially Observable Systems.
Hierarchical Probabilistic Gabor and MRF Segmentation of Brain Tumours in MRI Volumes.
Representation Discovery for MDPs Using Bisimulation Metrics.
Convergent Temporal-Difference Learning with Arbitrary Smooth Function Approximation.
Smarter Sampling in Model-Based Bayesian Reinforcement Learning.
Assessing the Predictability of Hospital Readmission Using Machine Learning.
Learning with Pseudo-Ensembles.
Learning to Schedule Straight-Line Code.
Activity Recognition with Mobile Phones.
Probabilistic Temporal Head Pose Estimation Using a Hierarchical Graphical Model.
Hierarchical temporal graphical model for head pose estimation and subsequent attribute classification in real-world videos.
A Study of Approximate Inference in Probabilistic Relational Models.
On-the-Fly Algorithms for Bisimulation Metrics.
Apprentissage actif dans les processus décisionnels de Markov partiellement observables L'algorithme MEDUSA.
Adapted MRF Segmentation of Multiple Sclerosis Lesions Using Local Contextual Information.
How to Find Big-Oh in Your Data Set (and How Not to).
Off-policy Learning with Options and Recognizers.
Basis Function Discovery Using Spectral Clustering and Bisimulation Metrics.
Incremental Stochastic Factorization for Online Reinforcement Learning.
Learning the Difference between Partially Observable Dynamical Systems.
A Convergent Form of Approximate Policy Iteration.
An Empirical Analysis of Off-policy Learning in Discrete MDPs.
Equivalence Relations in Fully and Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes.
Value Pursuit Iteration.
An Algebraic Approach to Dynamic Epistemic Logic.
Classification of Normal and Hypoxic Fetuses From Systems Modeling of Intrapartum Cardiotocography.
Average Reward Optimization Objective In Partially Observable Domains.
Editorial on Special Issue on Probabilistic Models for Biomedical Image Analysis.
Classification-Based Approximate Policy Iteration.
Approximate Value Iteration with Temporally Extended Actions.
Reinforcement Learning using Kernel-Based Stochastic Factorization.
Theoretical Results on Reinforcement Learning with Temporally Abstract Options.
Using bisimulation for policy transfer in MDPs.
Improved Switching among Temporally Abstract Actions.
IMaGe: Iterative Multilevel Probabilistic Graphical Model for Detection and Segmentation of Multiple Sclerosis Lesions in Brain MRI.
On Average Reward Policy Evaluation in Infinite-State Partially Observable Systems.
Algorithms for multi-armed bandit problems.
Using Rewards for Belief State Updates in Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes.
Model minimization by linear PSR.
Bisimulation Metrics are Optimal Value Functions.
The Multimodal Brain Tumor Image Segmentation Benchmark (BRATS).
Organizational principles of cloud storage to support collaborative biomedical research.
Learning Multi-Step Predictive State Representations.
Activity Recognition with Time-Delay Emobeddings.
Improved Estimation in Time Varying Models.
Between MDPs and Semi-MDPs: A Framework for Temporal Abstraction in Reinforcement Learning.
Differentially Private Policy Evaluation.
Analyzing User Trajectories from Mobile Device Data with Hierarchical Dirichlet Processes.
Generating storylines from sensor data.
Methods for Computing State Similarity in Markov Decision Processes.
Time Series Analysis Using Geometric Template Matching.
Context-Driven Predictions.
Using MDP Characteristics to Guide Exploration in Reinforcement Learning.
A Machine Learning Approach to the Detection of Fetal Hypoxia during Labor and Delivery.
Policy Iteration Based on Stochastic Factorization.
Using Bisimulation for Policy Transfer in MDPs.
Sample-based approximate regularization.
The Workshop Program at the Nineteenth National Conference on Artificial Intelligence.
Automatically suggesting topics for augmenting text documents.
Smart exploration in reinforcement learning using absolute temporal difference errors.
Theoretical results on the effect of 'shortcut' actions in MDPs.
Completing wikipedia's hyperlink structure through dimensionality reduction.
Eligibility Traces for Off-Policy Policy Evaluation.
Multi-time Models for Temporally Abstract Planning.
Active Learning in Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes.
Learning from Limited Demonstrations.
Metrics for Finite Markov Decision Processes
Reports of the AAAI 2011 Conference Workshops.
Metrics for Markov Decision Processes with Infinite State Spaces.
Horde: a scalable real-time architecture for learning knowledge from unsupervised sensorimotor interaction.
Quantifying the determinants of outbreak detection performance through simulation and machine learning.
A new Q(lambda) with interim forward view and Monte Carlo equivalence.
Optimal policy switching algorithms for reinforcement learning.
Developing Collaborative Golog Agents by Reinforcement Learning.
Basis refinement strategies for linear value function approximation in MDPs.
Identification of the Dynamic Relationship Between Intrapartum Uterine Pressure and Fetal Heart Rate for Normal and Hypoxic Fetuses.
Metrics for Finite Markov Decision Processes.
PAC-Learning of Markov Models with Hidden State.
Exponentiated Gradient Methods for Reinforcement Learning.
Classification Using Phi-Machines and Constructive Function Approximation.
Using Finite Experiments to Study Asymptotic Performance.
Using Hierarchical Mixture of Experts Model for Fusion of Outbreak Detection Methods.
Off-Policy Temporal Difference Learning with Function Approximation.
A novel similarity measure for time series data with applications to gait and activity recognition.
Smart Classifier Selection for Activity Recognition on Wearable Devices.
Soft biometric trait classification from real-world face videos conditioned on head pose estimation.
Bisimulation for Markov Decision Processes through Families of Functional Expressions.
Anytime similarity measures for faster alignment.
Mining Administrative Data to Predict Falls in the Elderly Population.
Basis function discovery using spectral clustering and bisimulation metrics.
Point-Based Planning for Predictive State Representations.
Greedy Confidence Pursuit: A Pragmatic Approach to Multi-bandit Optimization.
Metrics for Markov Decision Processes with Infinite State Spaces
Conditional Computation in Neural Networks for faster models.
Leveraging Lexical Resources for Learning Entity Embeddings in Multi-Relational Data.
Learning Options in Reinforcement Learning.
Belief Selection in Point-Based Planning Algorithms for POMDPs.
Characterizing Markov Decision Processes.
Data Generation as Sequential Decision Making.
Bellman Error Based Feature Generation using Random Projections on Sparse Spaces
Classification-based Approximate Policy Iteration: Experiments and Extended Discussions.
Data Mining Using Relational Database Management Systems.
A Framework for Computing Bounds for the Return of a Policy.
An approximation algorithm for labelled Markov processes: towards realistic approximation.
Using core beliefs for point-based value iteration.
Combining TD-learning with Cascade-correlation Networks.
Fast Image Alignment Using Anytime Algorithms.
The Option-Critic Architecture.
Combining and Adapting Software Quality Predictive Models by Genetic Algorithms.
A Planning Algorithm for Predictive State Representations.
Bisimulation Metrics for Continuous Markov Decision Processes.
The Duality of State and Observation in Probabilistic Transition Systems.
Iterative Multilevel MRF Leveraging Context and Voxel Information for Brain Tumour Segmentation in MRI.
RedAgent-2003: An Autonomous Market-Based Supply-Chain Management Agent.
Multi-layer temporal graphical model for head pose estimation in real-world videos.
Hierarchical Spatio-Temporal Probabilistic Graphical Model with Multiple Feature Fusion for Binary Facial Attribute Classification in Real-World Face Videos.
Bounding Performance Loss in Approximate MDP Homomorphisms.
Activity and Gait Recognition with Time-Delay Embeddings.
Practical Kernel-Based Reinforcement Learning.
Representing Systems with Hidden State.
Automatic Construction of Temporally Extended Actions for MDPs Using Bisimulation Metrics.
Intra-Option Learning about Temporally Abstract Actions.
Using Linear Programming for Bayesian Exploration in Markov Decision Processes.
Redagent: winner of TAC SCM 2003.
Feature selection and oversampling in analysis of clinical data for extubation readiness in extreme preterm infants.
Automatic basis function construction for approximate dynamic programming and reinforcement learning.
Variational Generative Stochastic Networks with Collaborative Shaping.
Learning Compact Representations of Time-Varying Processes.
Optimizing Energy Production Using Policy Search and Predictive State Representations.
Fast gradient-descent methods for temporal-difference learning with linear function approximation.
Bellman Error Based Feature Generation using Random Projections on Sparse Spaces.
Bayesian and grAphical Models for Biomedical Imaging - First International Workshop, BAMBI 2014, Cambridge, MA, USA, September 18, 2014, Revised Selected Papers
On-line Reinforcement Learning Using Incremental Kernel-Based Stochastic Factorization.
