The IBM RT07 Evaluation Systems for Speaker Diarization on Lecture Meetings.
Rapid Feature Space Speaker Adaptation for Multi-Stream HMM-Based Audio-Visual Speech Recognition.
Restoration of clipped signals with application to speech recognition.
The IBM Rich Transcription 2007 Speech-to-Text Systems for Lecture Meetings.
Rapid on-line environment compensation for server - based speech recognition in noisy mobile environments.
Robust audio-visual speech synchrony detection by generalized bimodal linear prediction.
The IBM speech-to-speech translation system for smartphone: Improvements for resource-constrained tasks.
An Extensible Language Interfacefor Robot Manipulation.
An Embedded System for In-Vehicle Visual Speech Activity Detection.
Acoustic-Similarity Based Technique to Improve Concept Recognition.
Towards High Performance LVCSR in Speech-to-Speech Translation System on Smart Phones.
A real-time prototype for small-vocabulary audio-visual ASR.
Dynamic Stream Weight Modeling for Audio-Visual Speech Recognition.
Optimal quantization and bit allocation for compressing large discriminative feature space transforms.
Audio-visual speech synchronization detection using a bimodal linear prediction model.
Deep Multimodal Learning for Audio-Visual Speech Recognition.
Compacting discriminative feature space transforms for embedded devices.
Scattering vs. discrete cosine transform features in visual speech processing.
Automatic Speech Recognition.
Multistage information fusion for audio-visual speech recognition.
Random walk theory applied to language identification.
Detection, diarization, and transcription of far-field lecture speech.
Deep multimodal learning for Audio-Visual Speech Recognition.
Efficient likelihood computation in multi-stream HMM based audio-visual speech recognition.
A Difference of Convex Functions Approach to Large-Scale Log-Linear Model Estimation.
Towards practical deployment of audio-visual speech recognition.
A framework for unsupervised transfer learning and application to dialog decision classification.
Detecting audio-visual synchrony using deep neural networks.
Incremental on-line feature space MLLR adaptation for telephony speech recognition.
Improving speaker diarization for CHIL lecture meetings.
Automatic Speech Recognition and Speech Activity Detection in the CHIL Smart Room.
Multimodal Retrieval With Asymmetrically Weighted Truncated-SVD Canonical Correlation Analysis.
Towards a domain-independent ASR-confidence classifier.
The IBM RT06s Evaluation System for Speech Activity Detection in CHIL Seminars.
Speech activity detection fusing acoustic phonetic and energy features.
