Second generation of high dynamic range, arbitrated digital imager.
4-Channel asynchronous bio-potential recording system.
An Integrated Patch-Clamp Amplifier in Silicon-on-Sapphire CMOS.
A 64×64 pixels UWB wireless temporal-difference digital image sensor.
A VLSI Neural Monitoring System With Ultra-Wideband Telemetry for Awake Behaving Subjects.
Recurrent Neural Networks Hardware Implementation on FPGA.
An Analysis of Deep Neural Network Models for Practical Applications.
Live demonstration: A 64×64 pixels UWB wireless temporal-difference digital image sensor.
Hardware accelerated visual attention algorithm.
Design Constraints for Mobile, High-Speed Fluorescence Brain Imaging in Awake Animals.
A monolithic isolation amplifier in silicon-on-insulator CMOS.
Live demonstration: A FSK-OOK ultra wideband impulse radio system with spontaneous clock and data recovery.
Address-Event Video Streaming over Wireless Sensor Networks.
An Address-Event Image Sensor Network.
CMOS Low Current Measurement System for Biomedical Applications.
A Low-Power High-Speed Ultra-Wideband Pulse Radio Transmission System.
Memory access optimized routing scheme for deep networks on a mobile coprocessor.
A Bio-inspired Event-based Size and Position Invariant Human Posture Recognition Algorithm.
A Multichip Neuromorphic System for Spike-Based Visual Information Processing.
An integrated patch-clamp amplifier in silicon-on-sapphire CMOS.
An Analysis of the Connections Between Layers of Deep Neural Networks.
Flattened Convolutional Neural Networks for Feedforward Acceleration.
An integrated patch-clamp amplifier for high-throughput planar patch-clamp systems.
Evaluating variable resolution displays with visual search: task performance and eye movements.
An 8-bit, 1mW successive approximation ADC in SOI CMOS.
A comparative study of access topologies for chip-level address-event communication channels.
A second-generation imaging system for freely moving animals.
Efficient Feedforward Categorization of Objects and Human Postures with Address-Event Image Sensors.
ALOHA CMOS imager.
Modeling hot-electrons effects in silicon-on-sapphire MOSFETs.
Phototransistor image sensor in silicon on sapphire.
Visual Tracking with Similarity Matching Ratio
A 3D Integrated Feature-Extracting Image Sensor.
An Integrated Patch-Clamp Potentiostat With Electrode Compensation.
Dark current and noise of 100nm thick silicon on sapphire CMOS lateral PIN photodiodes.
High dynamic range, arbitrated address event representation digital imager.
3D integrated sensors in silicon-on-sapphire CMOS.
A low-power silicon-on-sapphire tunable ultra-wideband transmitter.
An integrated patch-clamp system with dual Input.
Thin film PIN photodiodes for optoelectronic silicon on sapphire CMOS.
A Low-power High-speed Ultra Wideband Pulse Radio System.
NeuFlow: A runtime reconfigurable dataflow processor for vision.
Guest Editorial.
A 1.2mW CMOS temporal-difference image sensor for sensor networks.
Tracking with deep neural networks.
Address-event image sensor network.
Fall detection using an address-event temporal contrast vision sensor.
CMOS low current measurement system for biomedical applications.
A 64 ˟ 64 Pixels UWB Wireless Temporal-Difference Digital Image Sensor.
A compact-pixel tri-mode vision sensor.
A 240 G-ops/s Mobile Coprocessor for Deep Neural Networks.
A Silicon-on-Sapphire Low-Voltage Temperature Sensor for Energy Scavengers.
An Integrated Patch-Clamp Amplifier for High-Density Whole-Cell Recordings.
Heterogeneous integration of biomimetic acoustic microsystems.
Address-event imagers for sensor networks: evaluation and modeling.
Performance comparison of low current measurement systems for biomedical applications.
Digital phase-shift modulation for an isolation buffer in silicon-on-sapphire CMOS.
A non-coherent FSK-OOK UWB impulse radio transmitter for clock-less synchronization.
Capacitive Inter-Chip Data and Power Transfer for 3-D VLSI.
Hardware accelerated convolutional neural networks for synthetic vision systems.
Convolutional Clustering for Unsupervised Learning.
ENet: A Deep Neural Network Architecture for Real-Time Semantic Segmentation.
Online camera calibration and node localization in sensor networks.
Robust Convolutional Neural Networks under Adversarial Noise.
Capacitive coupling of data and power for 3D silicon-on-insulator VLSI.
A tri-mode event-based vision sensor with an embedded wireless transmitter.
A VLSI neural monitoring system with ultra-wideband telemetry for awake behaving subjects.
Clustering Learning for Robotic Vision
Spatial acuity modulation of an address-event imager.
Confession session: Learning from others mistakes.
Noise Analysis and Performance Comparison of Low Current Measurement Systems for Biomedical Applications.
Vertically-Integrated Three-Dimensional SOI Photodetectors.
Activity-driven, event-based vision sensors.
A 16 /spl times/ 16 pixel silicon on sapphire CMOS photosensor array with a digital interface for adaptive wavefront correction.
An Address-Event Fall Detector for Assisted Living Applications.
Live Demonstration: A Bio-inspired Event-based Size and Position Invariant Human Posture Recognition Algorithm.
An 8-bit 800- μħbox W 1.23-MS/s Successive Approximation ADC in SOI CMOS.
Saliency-Driven Image Acuity Modulation on a Reconfigurable Array of Spiking Silicon Neurons.
Audio-visual saliency map: Overview, basic models and hardware implementation.
Visual Tracking with Similarity Matching Ratio.
Event-based imaging with active illumination in sensor networks.
Back-illuminated ultraviolet image sensor in silicon-on-sapphire.
Visual attention with deep neural networks.
Nonvolatile Flash Memories in Silicon-on-sapphire CMOS.
A Pulse-based Amplifier and Data Converter for Bio-potentials.
High-speed Fluorescence Imaging System for Freely Moving Animals.
Continuous Time Level Crossing Sampling ADC for Bio-Potential Recording Systems.
An ultra-low power silicon-on-sapphire ADC for energy-scavenging sensors.
A real-time spike-domain sensory information processing system [image processing applications].
