Evaluating Component Solver Contributions to Portfolio-Based Algorithm Selectors.
A case study of algorithm selection for the traveling thief problem.
Bayesian Optimization in a Billion Dimensions via Random Embeddings
Auto-WEKA: combined selection and hyperparameter optimization of classification algorithms.
Efficient and Robust Automated Machine Learning.
Algorithm Runtime Prediction: Methods and Evaluation (Extended Abstract).
Parallel Algorithm Configuration.
Speeding Up Automatic Hyperparameter Optimization of Deep Neural Networks by Extrapolation of Learning Curves.
AClib: A Benchmark Library for Algorithm Configuration.
ASlib: A benchmark library for algorithm selection.
Initializing Bayesian Hyperparameter Optimization via Meta-Learning.
Automatic Configuration of Sequential Planning Portfolios.
The Configurable SAT Solver Challenge (CSSC).
Auto-WEKA: Automated Selection and Hyper-Parameter Optimization of Classification Algorithms
An Efficient Approach for Assessing Hyperparameter Importance.
Bayesian Optimization in a Billion Dimensions via Random Embeddings.
Automatic bone parameter estimation for skeleton tracking in optical motion capture.
SpySMAC: Automated Configuration and Performance Analysis of SAT Solvers.
Tradeoffs in the empirical evaluation of competing algorithm designs.
: The Design and Analysis of an Algorithm Portfolio for SAT.
Identifying Key Algorithm Parameters and Instance Features Using Forward Selection.
CMA-ES for Hyperparameter Optimization of Deep Neural Networks.
Bayesian Optimization in High Dimensions via Random Embeddings.
SGDR: Stochastic Gradient Descent with Restarts.
Time-Bounded Sequential Parameter Optimization.
Surrogate Benchmarks for Hyperparameter Optimization.
Algorithm Configuration in the Cloud: A Feasibility Study.
AutoFolio: Algorithm Configuration for Algorithm Selection.
Improved Features for Runtime Prediction of Domain-Independent Planners.
Algorithm Runtime Prediction: The State of the Art
Algorithm Configuration, Papers from the 2015 AAAI Workshop, Austin, Texas, USA, January 26, 2015.
Beyond Manual Tuning of Hyperparameters.
Online Batch Selection for Faster Training of Neural Networks.
Automatic Algorithm Configuration Based on Local Search.
SATzilla: Portfolio-based Algorithm Selection for SAT.
Understanding the empirical hardness of 
ParamILS: An Automatic Algorithm Configuration Framework.
ASlib: A Benchmark Library for Algorithm Selection.
Fast Bayesian Optimization of Machine Learning Hyperparameters on Large Datasets.
A Kernel for Hierarchical Parameter Spaces.
An evaluation of sequential model-based optimization for expensive blackbox functions.
Efficient Benchmarking of Hyperparameter Optimizers via Surrogates.
Automated Configuration of Mixed Integer Programming Solvers.
An experimental investigation of model-based parameter optimisation: SPO and beyond.
Using Meta-Learning to Initialize Bayesian Optimization of Hyperparameters.
Efficient Stochastic Local Search for MPE Solving.
Algorithm runtime prediction: Methods & evaluation.
From Sequential Algorithm Selection to Parallel Portfolio Selection.
Scaling and Probabilistic Smoothing: Efficient Dynamic Local Search for SAT.
On the Effective Configuration of Planning Domain Models.
Performance Prediction and Automated Tuning of Randomized and Parametric Algorithms.
SATzilla: Portfolio-based Algorithm Selection for SAT
Boosting Verification by Automatic Tuning of Decision Procedures.
Sequential Model-Based Optimization for General Algorithm Configuration.
Reports on the Twenty-First National Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-06) Workshop Program.
Bayesian Optimization for More Automatic Machine Learning.
AutoFolio: An Automatically Configured Algorithm Selector.
Bayesian Optimization With Censored Response Data.
