A comparative study on system combination schemes for LVCSR.
Scalable Minimum Bayes Risk Training of Deep Neural Network Acoustic Models Using Distributed Hessian-free Optimization.
The IBM Attila speech recognition toolkit.
Unfolded recurrent neural networks for speech recognition.
Efficient spoken term detection using confusion networks.
The 2003 ISL rich transcription system for conversational telephony speech.
Neural network acoustic models for the DARPA RATS program.
Advances in speech transcription at IBM under the DARPA EARS program.
Discriminative Phonotactics for Dialect Recognition Using Context-Dependent Phone Classifiers.
On the influence of hyperarticulated speech on recognition performance.
The ISL evaluation system for Verbmobil-II.
The IBM 2008 GALE Arabic speech transcription system.
Deep Convolutional Neural Networks for Large-scale Speech Tasks.
Compensating for hyperarticulation by modeling articulatory properties.
Recognition of music types.
Phone dependent modeling of hyperarticulated effects#.
Optimization Techniques to Improve Training Speed of Deep Neural Networks for Large Speech Tasks.
Automatische Identifizierung spontan gesprochener Sprachen mit neuronalen Netzen.
Exploiting diversity for spoken term detection.
Advances in automatic meeting record creation and access.
fMPE: Discriminatively Trained Features for Speech Recognition.
Improvements to deep convolutional neural networks for LVCSR.
Speaker compensation with sine-log all-pass transforms.
Confidence measure based language identification.
Removing redundancy from lattices.
Speaker adaptation of neural network acoustic models using i-vectors.
Boosting systems for large vocabulary continuous speech recognition.
Joint training of convolutional and non-convolutional neural networks.
Speech recognition over netmeeting connections.
Advances in Arabic Speech Transcription at IBM Under the DARPA GALE Program.
Analyzing convolutional neural networks for speech activity detection in mismatched acoustic conditions.
Decoding with shrinkage-based language models.
Compensating hyperarticulation for automatic speech recognition.
Out-of-vocabulary word detection in a speech-to-speech translation system.
Large margin semi-tied covariance transforms for discriminative training.
Progress in dynamic network decoding.
The IBM 2006 Gale Arabic ASR System.
Dynamic network decoding revisited.
From Modern Standard Arabic to Levantine ASR: Leveraging GALE for dialects.
The IBM 2004 Conversational Telephony System for Rich Transcription.
Boosting systems for LVCSR.
Morpheme-based feature-rich language models using Deep Neural Networks for LVCSR of Egyptian Arabic.
The IBM keyword search system for the DARPA RATS program.
Improvements to Deep Convolutional Neural Networks for LVCSR.
The IBM 2011 GALE Arabic speech transcription system.
Specialized acoustic models for hyperarticulated speech.
The IBM speech activity detection system for the DARPA RATS program.
Efficient language model lookahead through polymorphic linguistic context assignment.
Fast speaker adaptive training for speech recognition.
A comparison of two optimization techniques for sequence discriminative training of deep neural networks.
The IBM 2009 GALE Arabic speech transcription system.
