Speech recognition in multiple languages and domains: the 2003 BBN/LIMSI EARS system.
Boosting Neural Networks.
Translation project adaptation for MT-enhanced computer assisted translation.
Parametric Weighting of Parallel Data for Statistical Machine Translation.
Transformation Invariant Autoassociation with Application to Handwritten Character Recognition.
Continuous Adaptation to User Feedback for Statistical Machine Translation.
CSLM - a modular open-source continuous space language modeling toolkit.
Investigations on large-scale lightly-supervised training for statistical machine translation.
Speech transcription in multiple languages.
Smooth Bilingual N-Gram Translation.
The LIMSI RT06s Lecture Transcription System.
Combining multiple speech recognizers using voting and language model information.
Training Neural Network Language Models on Very Large Corpora.
Advances in transcription of broadcast news and conversational telephone speech within the combined EARS BBN/LIMSI system.
LIUM's SMT Machine Translation Systems for WMT 2012.
Very Deep Convolutional Networks for Natural Language Processing.
Multimodal Comparable Corpora as Resources for Extracting Parallel Data: Parallel Phrases Extraction.
The Diabolo Classifier.
Continuous Space Language Models for Statistical Machine Translation.
The 2004 BBN/LIMSI 20xRT English conversational telephone speech recognition system.
Parallel Texts Extraction from Multimodal Comparable Corpora.
LIUM's systems for the IWSLT 2011 speech translation tasks.
On Using Monolingual Corpora in Neural Machine Translation.
Incremental adaptation using translation information and post-editing analysis.
Building and using multimodal comparable corpora for machine translation.
Learning Phrase Representations using RNN Encoder-Decoder for Statistical Machine Translation.
N-gram-based machine translation enhanced with neural networks for the French-English BTEC-IWSLT'10 task.
Automatic Translation of Scientific Documents in the HAL Archive.
A Multi-Domain Translation Model Framework for Statistical Machine Translation.
Large and Diverse Language Models for Statistical Machine Translation.
Continuous Space Translation Models for Phrase-Based Statistical Machine Translation.
Collaborative Machine Translation Service for Scientific texts.
Improved machine translation of speech-to-text outputs.
LIUM's Statistical Machine Translation System for the NTCIR Chinese/English PatentMT.
Continuous-Space Language Models for Statistical Machine Translation.
Training Methods for Adaptive Boosting of Neural Networks.
Connectionist language modeling for large vocabulary continuous speech recognition.
The LIUM Arabic/English statistical machine translation system for IWSLT 2008.
Trends and challenges in language modeling for speech recognition and machine translation.
AdaBoosting Neural Networks: Application to on-line Character Recognition.
Parallel sentence generation from comparable corpora for improved SMT.
Neural network language models for conversational speech recognition.
Continuous space language models for the IWSLT 2006 task.
LIUM's statistical machine translation systems for IWSLT 2009.
Data selection and smoothing in an open-source system for the 2008 NIST machine translation evaluation.
Empirical Use of Information Retrieval to Build Synthetic Data for SMT Domain Adaptation.
Continuous space language models.
Language recognition using phone latices.
The TALP n-gram-based SMT system for IWSLT 2007.
Building continuous space language models for transcribing european languages.
The LIMSI 2006 TC-STAR EPPS Transcription Systems.
Using boosting to improve a hybrid HMM/neural network speech recognizer.
Conversational telephone speech recognition.
System Combination for Machine Translation of Spoken and Written Language.
Semi-supervised transliteration mining from parallel and comparable corpora.
On the Use of Comparable Corpora to Improve SMT performance.
Constraint tangent distance for on-line character recognition.
Incremental Adaptation Strategies for Neural Network Language Models.
Where are we in transcribing French broadcast news?
Optimising Multiple Metrics with MERT.
The Matecat Tool.
