Augmenting CRFs with Boltzmann Machine Shape Priors for Image Labeling.
Deep Learning for Detecting Robotic Grasps
Weakly Supervised Learning of Mid-Level Features with Beta-Bernoulli Process Restricted Boltzmann Machines.
An efficient branch-and-bound algorithm for optimal human pose estimation.
Efficient L1 Regularized Logistic Regression.
Deep Learning for Reward Design to Improve Monte Carlo Tree Search in ATARI Games.
Self-taught learning: transfer learning from unlabeled data.
Efficient Distributed Linear Classification Algorithms via the Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers.
Deep Visual Analogy-Making.
Discriminative Training of Structured Dictionaries via Block Orthogonal Matching Pursuit.
Learning hierarchical representations for face verification with convolutional deep belief networks.
Zero-Shot Learning with Structured Embeddings.
Object Contour Detection with a Fully Convolutional Encoder-Decoder Network.
Quadruped Robot Obstacle Negotiation via Reinforcement Learning.
Improving object detection with deep convolutional networks via Bayesian optimization and structured prediction.
Learning Structured Output Representation using Deep Conditional Generative Models.
Deep learning for robust feature generation in audiovisual emotion recognition.
Unsupervised learning of hierarchical representations with convolutional deep belief networks.
Deep Learning for Real-Time Atari Game Play Using Offline Monte-Carlo Tree Search Planning.
A Classification-Based Polyphonic Piano Transcription Approach Using Learned Feature Representations.
Editorial introduction to the Neural Networks special issue on Deep Learning of Representations.
Efficient sparse coding algorithms.
Efficient and Exact MAP-MRF Inference using Branch and Bound.
Structured Recurrent Temporal Restricted Boltzmann Machines.
A Dynamic Bayesian Network Model for Autonomous 3D Reconstruction from a Single Indoor Image.
Augmenting Supervised Neural Networks with Unsupervised Objectives for Large-scale Image Classification.
Multimodal Deep Learning.
Learning Deep Representations of Fine-grained Visual Descriptions.
An integrated machine learning approach to stroke prediction.
Weakly-supervised Disentangling with Recurrent Transformations for 3D View Synthesis.
Action-Conditional Video Prediction using Deep Networks in Atari Games.
Online Incremental Feature Learning with Denoising Autoencoders.
Understanding and Improving Convolutional Neural Networks via Concatenated Rectified Linear Units.
Training Deep Neural Networks on Noisy Labels with Bootstrapping.
Automatic Single-Image 3d Reconstructions of Indoor Manhattan World Scenes.
Control of Memory, Active Perception, and Action in Minecraft.
Convolutional deep belief networks for scalable unsupervised learning of hierarchical representations.
Measuring Invariances in Deep Networks.
A unified framework for automatic wound segmentation and analysis with deep convolutional neural networks.
Unsupervised feature learning for audio classification using convolutional deep belief networks.
Guest Editors' Introduction: Special Section on Learning Deep Architectures.
Improving Object Detection with Deep Convolutional Networks via Bayesian Optimization and Structured Prediction.
Deep Learning for Detecting Robotic Grasps.
Learning to Disentangle Factors of Variation with Manifold Interaction.
An Analysis of Single-Layer Networks in Unsupervised Feature Learning.
Generative Adversarial Text to Image Synthesis.
Learning and Selecting Features Jointly with Point-wise Gated Boltzmann Machines.
Evaluation of output embeddings for fine-grained image classification.
Sparse deep belief net model for visual area V2.
Learning Invariant Representations with Local Transformations.
Attribute2Image: Conditional Image Generation from Visual Attributes.
Efficient learning of sparse, distributed, convolutional feature representations for object recognition.
Exponential Family Sparse Coding with Application to Self-taught Learning.
Dependency Sensitive Convolutional Neural Networks for Modeling Sentences and Documents.
Spam Deobfuscation using a Hidden Markov Model.
Robust Image Denoising with Multi-Column Deep Neural Networks.
Deep learning for detecting robotic grasps.
Improved Multimodal Deep Learning with Variation of Information.
Learning to Align from Scratch.
Learning Transferrable Knowledge for Semantic Segmentation with Deep Convolutional Neural Network.
