Modeling local and global deformations in Deep Learning: Epitomic convolution, Multiple Instance Learning, and sliding window detection.
Modulation-feature based textured image segmentation using curve evolution.
SHREC'10 Track: Robust Shape Retrieval.
Semantic Image Segmentation with Deep Convolutional Nets and Fully Connected CRFs.
Discovering discriminative action parts from mid-level video representations.
Segmentation-Aware Deformable Part Models.
Bounding Part Scores for Rapid Detection with Deformable Part Models.
Fracking Deep Convolutional Image Descriptors.
DeepLab: Semantic Image Segmentation with Deep Convolutional Nets, Atrous Convolution, and Fully Connected CRFs.
Highly accurate boundary detection and grouping.
Inference and learning with hierarchical compositional models.
A Biologically Motivated and Computationally Tractable Model of Low and Mid-Level Vision Tasks.
Sub-cortical brain structure segmentation using F-CNN'S.
Prior-Based Coregistration and Cosegmentation.
Scale invariance without scale selection.
Discriminative Learning of Deep Convolutional Feature Point Descriptors.
Scale-invariant heat kernel signatures for non-rigid shape recognition.
Learning-Based Symmetry Detection in Natural Images.
UberNet: Training a `Universal' Convolutional Neural Network for Low-, Mid-, and High-Level Vision using Diverse Datasets and Limited Memory.
Surface Based Object Detection in RGBD Images.
Nonlinear analysis of speech signals: generalized dimensions and lyapunov exponents.
3D Model-based Reconstruction of the Proximal Femur from Low-dose Biplanar X-Ray Images.
Discriminative learning of deformable contour models.
Rapid Mode Estimation for 3D Brain MRI Tumor Segmentation.
Shape grammar parsing via Reinforcement Learning.
Sub-cortical brain structure segmentation using F-CNN's.
Prior-based Coregistration and Cosegmentation.
Boundary Detection Using F-Measure-, Filter- and Feature- (F
Computational analysis and learning for a biologically motivated model of boundary detection.
Understanding Objects in Detail with Fine-Grained Attributes.
Unsupervised Learning of Object Deformation Models.
Inference and Learning with Hierarchical Shape Models.
Semantic Part Segmentation with Deep Learning.
Advances in Variational Image Segmentation Using AM-FM Models: Regularized Demodulation and Probabilistic Cue Integration.
Fast, Exact and Multi-scale Inference for Semantic Image Segmentation with Deep Gaussian CRFs.
Learning Dense Convolutional Embeddings for Semantic Segmentation.
Rapid Deformable Object Detection using Dual-Tree Branch-and-Bound.
Intrinsic shape context descriptors for deformable shapes.
Nonlinear speech analysis using models for chaotic systems.
Deep Filter Banks for Texture Recognition, Description, and Segmentation.
Fast and Exact: ADMM-Based Discriminative Shape Segmentation with Loopy Part Models.
An Expectation Maximization Approach to the Synergy between Image Segmentation and Object Categorization.
Dense Segmentation-Aware Descriptors.
Untangling Local and Global Deformations in Deep Convolutional Networks for Image Classification and Sliding Window Detection.
Surpassing Humans in Boundary Detection using Deep Learning.
Shufflets: Shared Mid-level Parts for Fast Object Detection.
Advances in texture analysis-energy dominant component & multiple hypothesis testing.
Parsing Facades with Shape Grammars and Reinforcement Learning.
Synergy between Object Recognition and Image Segmentation Using the Expectation-Maximization Algorithm.
Describing Textures in the Wild.
Fast, Exact and Multi-Scale Inference for Semantic Image Segmentation with Deep Gaussian CRFs.
Accurate Human-Limb Segmentation in RGB-D Images for Intelligent Mobility Assistance Robots.
Texture Analysis and Segmentation Using Modulation Features, Generative Models, and Weighted Curve Evolution.
Advances in Intelligent Mobility Assistance Robot Integrating Multimodal Sensory Processing.
HOP: Hierarchical object parsing.
Bottom-Up & Top-down Object Detection using Primal Sketch Features and Graphical Models.
Editorial introduction to the CVIU special issue on "Generative models in computer vision and medical imaging".
Deep filter banks for texture recognition, description, and segmentation.
Data Acquisition towards Defining a Multimodal Interaction Model for Human - Assistive Robot Communication.
SHREC'10 Track: Feature Detection and Description.
