SUN database: Large-scale scene recognition from abbey to zoo.
Transient attributes for high-level understanding and editing of outdoor scenes.
Tropel: Crowdsourcing Detectors with Minimal Training.
Learning to classify human object sketches.
How do humans sketch objects?
Image de-fencing.
A comparison study of four texture synthesis algorithms on near-regular textures.
Digital papercutting.
The sketchy database: learning to retrieve badly drawn bunnies.
Edge-based blur kernel estimation using patch priors.
Learning deep representations for ground-to-aerial geolocalization.
Image and video based painterly animation.
SUN attribute database: Discovering, annotating, and recognizing scene attributes.
Good Image Priors for Non-blind Deconvolution - Generic vs. Specific.
Specification of an Online Advisement System.
Super-resolution from internet-scale scene matching.
Lens Factory: Automatic Lens Generation Using Off-the-shelf Components.
Near-regular texture analysis and manipulation.
Scene completion using millions of photographs.
COCO Attributes: Attributes for People, Animals, and Objects.
Discovering Texture Regularity as a Higher-Order Correspondence Problem.
Interactive design and visualization of tensor fields on surfaces.
Cross-View Image Geolocalization.
FrameBreak: Dramatic Image Extrapolation by Guided Shift-Maps.
Solving Square Jigsaw Puzzles with Loop Constraints.
Microsoft COCO: Common Objects in Context.
The SUN Attribute Database: Beyond Categories for Deeper Scene Understanding.
Simulation of process and resource management in a multiprogramming operating system.
Image sequence geolocation with human travel priors.
WebGazer: Scalable Webcam Eye Tracking Using User Interactions.
An empirical study of context in object detection.
Exploring outdoor appearance changes with transient scene attributes.
Quality Assessment for Crowdsourced Object Annotations.
Quantitative Evaluation of Near Regular Texture Synthesis Algorithms.
IM2GPS: estimating geographic information from a single image.
Localizing and Orienting Street Views Using Overhead Imagery.
SUN Database: Exploring a Large Collection of Scene Categories.
Dating Historical Color Images.
Guest Editorial: Scene Understanding.
Interactive Tensor Field Design and Visualization on Surfaces.
