An Orthogonal Projection Approach for Blind Beamforming in Multipath CDMA Channels.
The Matching Research of Strawberry Diseases Image Features Based on KD-Tree Search Method.
Diffusion Strategies for Adaptation and Learning over Networks: An Examination of Distributed Strategies and Network Behavior.
A New Method for Learning Deep Recurrent Neural Networks.
Unsupervised Learning of Predictors from Unpaired Input-Output Samples.
Edge Geometric Measurement Based Principal Component Analysis in Strawberry Leaf Images.
On the Learning Behavior of Adaptive Networks - Part I: Transient Analysis.
Distributed Pareto Optimization via Diffusion Strategies
Plant Image Analysis Machine Vision System in Greenhouse.
Stansfield Localization Algorithm: Theoretical Analysis and Distributed Implementation.
Dynamic joint outage identification and state estimation in power systems.
Line outage detection in power transmission networks via message passing algorithms.
Cooperative off-policy prediction of Markov decision processes in adaptive networks.
Dictionary Learning Over Distributed Models.
End-to-end Learning of LDA by Mirror-Descent Back Propagation over a Deep Architecture.
On the probability distribution of distributed optimization strategies.
On the benefits of diffusion cooperation for distributed optimization and learning.
Distributed inference over regression and classification models.
Distributed optimization via diffusion adaptation.
Distributed throughput optimization over P2P mesh networks using diffusion adaptation.
Cramer-Rao Bounds for Joint RSS/DoA-Based Primary-User Localization in Cognitive Radio Networks.
Deep Sentence Embedding Using Long Short-Term Memory Networks: Analysis and Application to Information Retrieval.
Analyzing amplify-and-forward and decode-and-forward cooperative strategies in Wyner's channel model.
A Deep Embedding Model for Co-occurrence Learning.
Excess-Risk of Distributed Stochastic Learners.
Online dictionary learning over distributed models.
Beam coordination via diffusion adaptation over array networks.
Performance Analysis of the Matrix Pair Beamformer with Matrix Mismatch
Distributed Pareto Optimization via Diffusion Strategies.
Semantic Modelling with Long-Short-Term Memory for Information Retrieval.
Diffusion Adaptation Strategies for Distributed Optimization and Learning over Networks
Learning to infer: A new variational inference approach for power grid topology identification.
Diffusion Adaptation Strategies for Distributed Optimization and Learning Over Networks.
Deep Reinforcement Learning with a Natural Language Action Space.
On distributed online classification in the midst of concept drifts.
Collaborative learning of mixture models using diffusion adaptation.
Cramer-Rao Bounds for Joint RSS/DoA-Based Primary-User Localization in Cognitive Radio Networks
Bio-inspired cooperative optimization with application to bacteria motility.
Dictionary Learning over Distributed Models.
Deep Reinforcement Learning with an Unbounded Action Space.
A Multi-Interference-Channel Matrix Pair Beamformer for CDMA Systems
Distributed Policy Evaluation Under Multiple Behavior Strategies.
Deep Sentence Embedding Using the Long Short Term Memory Network: Analysis and Application to Information Retrieval.
Optimal joint detection and estimation in linear models.
End-to-end Learning of Latent Dirichlet Allocation by Mirror-Descent Back Propagation.
Online learning and adaptation over networks: More information is not necessarily better.
Distributed pareto-optimal solutions via diffusion adaptation.
On the generalization ability of distributed online learners.
Recurrent Reinforcement Learning: A Hybrid Approach.
Excess-Risk Analysis of Distributed Stochastic Learners
Deep Reinforcement Learning with a Combinatorial Action Space for Predicting and Tracking Popular Discussion Threads.
Dictionary learning over large distributed models via dual-ADMM strategies.
Sequence classification using the high-level features extracted from deep neural networks.
Performance of diffusion adaptation for collaborative optimization.
Research on Automatic Irrigation Algorithm of Strawberry Greenhouse Based on PLC.
Robust Power Control Under Location and Channel Uncertainty in Cognitive Radio Networks.
Interpreting the prediction process of a deep network constructed from supervised topic models.
On Distributed Online Classification in the Midst of Concept Drifts
Distributed learning via Diffusion adaptation with application to ensemble learning.
On the Learning Behavior of Adaptive Networks - Part II: Performance Analysis.
On the limiting behavior of distributed optimization strategies.
