AAAI 2008 Workshop Reports.
Wikispeedia: An Online Game for Inferring Semantic Distances between Concepts.
Proceedings of the 29th International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML-12)
A formal framework for robot learning and control under model uncertainty.
Towards robotic assistants in nursing homes: Challenges and results.
Compressed Least-Squares Regression on Sparse Spaces.
An Expectation-Maximization Algorithm to Compute a Stochastic Factorization From Data.
Informing sequential clinical decision-making through reinforcement learning: an empirical study.
Model-Based Bayesian Reinforcement Learning in Large Structured Domains.
Applying Metric-Trees to Belief-Point POMDPs.
PAC-Bayesian Model Selection for Reinforcement Learning.
Active Learning for Developing Personalized Treatment.
PAC-Bayesian Policy Evaluation for Reinforcement Learning
Anytime Point-Based Approximations for Large POMDPs
SmartWheeler: A Robotic Wheelchair Test-Bed for Investigating New Models of Human-Robot Interaction.
Hierarchical Neural Network Generative Models for Movie Dialogues.
Efficient learning and planning with compressed predictive states.
End-to-End Text Recognition with Hybrid HMM Maxout Models.
Point-based value iteration: An anytime algorithm for POMDPs.
Active Learning for Developing Personalized Treatment
Robotic Assistance During Ambulation by Older Adults.
Incremental Stochastic Factorization for Online Reinforcement Learning.
A survey of point-based POMDP solvers.
An Empirical Analysis of Off-policy Learning in Discrete MDPs.
Goal-Directed Online Learning of Predictive Models.
Reinforcement learning with limited reinforcement: using Bayes risk for active learning in POMDPs.
Policy-contingent abstraction for robust robot control.
Reinforcement Learning using Kernel-Based Stochastic Factorization.
Experiences with a Mobile Robotic Guide for the Elderly.
Learning time series models for pedestrian motion prediction.
Anytime Point-Based Approximations for Large POMDPs.
Theoretical Analysis of Heuristic Search Methods for Online POMDPs.
Multitask Generalized Eigenvalue Program.
Planning under uncertainty in robotics.
Methods of Moments for Learning Stochastic Languages: Unified Presentation and Empirical Comparison.
Active learning for personalizing treatment.
MDPs with Non-Deterministic Policies.
Person tracking and following with 2D laser scanners.
An Actor-Critic Algorithm for Sequence Prediction.
Model-Based Bayesian Reinforcement Learning in Large Structured Domains
Automatic Seizure Detection in an In-Vivo Model of Epilepsy.
Treating Epilepsy by Reinforcement Learning Via Manifold-Based Simulation.
The Ubuntu Dialogue Corpus: A Large Dataset for Research in Unstructured Multi-Turn Dialogue Systems.
Lifelong Learning of Discriminative Representations.
Design and Evaluation of a Flexible Interface for Spatial Navigation.
Online Planning Algorithms for POMDPs.
Automatically characterizing driving activities onboard smart wheelchairs from accelerometer data.
Bayes-Adaptive POMDPs.
Spoken Dialogue Management Using Probabilistic Reasoning.
A bistable computational model of recurring epileptiform activity as observed in rodent slice preparations.
Development and Validation of a Robust Speech Interface for Improved Human-Robot Interaction.
Practical Kernel-Based Reinforcement Learning.
Bayesian Reinforcement Learning: A Survey.
Policy Iteration Based on Stochastic Factorization.
Designing Intelligent Wheelchairs: Reintegrating AI.
Learning Robust Features using Deep Learning for Automatic Seizure Detection.
Improving the Design and Discovery of Dynamic Treatment Strategies Using Recent Results in Sequential Decision-Making.
Online Ensemble Learning for Imbalanced Data Streams.
POMDP Planning for Robust Robot Control.
Automatically suggesting topics for augmenting text documents.
Completing wikipedia's hyperlink structure through dimensionality reduction.
Building End-To-End Dialogue Systems Using Generative Hierarchical Neural Network Models.
Time Series Analysis Using Geometric Template Matching.
Recurrent Boosting for Classification of Natural and Synthetic Time-Series Data.
Treating Epilepsy via Adaptive Neurostimulation: a Reinforcement Learning Approach.
Active Learning in Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes.
Reinforcement learning with limited reinforcement: Using Bayes risk for active learning in POMDPs.
Learning from Limited Demonstrations.
On the Evaluation of Dialogue Systems with Next Utterance Classification.
Bayesian reinforcement learning for POMDP-based dialogue systems.
Mixed Observability Predictive State Representations.
Analyzing Open Data from the City of Montreal.
PAC-Learning of Markov Models with Hidden State.
Socially Adaptive Path Planning in Human Environments Using Inverse Reinforcement Learning.
Modelling Sparse Dynamical Systems with Compressed Predictive State Representations.
Reinforcement Learning with Limited Reinforcement: Using Bayes Risk for Active Learning in POMDPs.
A bayesian reinforcement learning approach for customizing human-robot interfaces.
Fast reinforcement learning of dialog strategies.
Generalized Dictionary for Multitask Learning with Boosting.
Variable resolution decomposition for robotic navigation under a POMDP framework.
Non-Deterministic Policies in Markovian Decision Processes.
Bayes-Adaptive POMDPs: A New Perspective on the Explore-Exploit Tradeoff in Partially Observable Domains.
Information Gathering and Reward Exploitation of Subgoals for POMDPs.
Conditional Computation in Neural Networks for faster models.
Manifold Embeddings for Model-Based Reinforcement Learning under Partial Observability.
Maximum Mean Discrepancy Imitation Learning.
Bellman Error Based Feature Generation using Random Projections on Sparse Spaces
A Framework for Computing Bounds for the Return of a Policy.
Efficient Learning and Planning with Compressed Predictive States.
The Duality of State and Observation in Probabilistic Transition Systems.
Online Boosting Algorithms for Anytime Transfer and Multitask Learning.
Adaptive Treatment of Epilepsy via Batch-mode Reinforcement Learning.
Apprentissage actif dans les processus décisionnels de Markov partiellement observables L'algorithme MEDUSA.
A Survey of Available Corpora for Building Data-Driven Dialogue Systems.
A Bayesian Approach for Learning and Planning in Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes.
A Hierarchical Latent Variable Encoder-Decoder Model for Generating Dialogues.
Representing Systems with Hidden State.
Policy-contingent abstraction for robust robot control
A Variance Analysis for POMDP Policy Evaluation.
Bayesian reinforcement learning in continuous POMDPs with application to robot navigation.
Multi-tasking SLAM.
RRT-Plan: A Randomized Algorithm for STRIPS Planning.
PAC-Bayesian Policy Evaluation for Reinforcement Learning.
Building Adaptive Dialogue Systems Via Bayes-Adaptive POMDPs.
Bellman Error Based Feature Generation using Random Projections on Sparse Spaces.
How NOT To Evaluate Your Dialogue System: An Empirical Study of Unsupervised Evaluation Metrics for Dialogue Response Generation.
On-line Reinforcement Learning Using Incremental Kernel-Based Stochastic Factorization.
