SIFT Flow: Dense Correspondence across Different Scenes.
Get Out of my Picture! Internet-based Inpainting.
Video Google: A Text Retrieval Approach to Object Matching in Videos.
Pose Estimation and Segmentation of People in 3D Movies.
Linking Past to Present: Discovering Style in Two Centuries of Architecture.
Infinite Images: Creating and Exploring a Large Photorealistic Virtual Space.
Creating and exploring a large photorealistic virtual space.
Hello! My name is... Buffy'' -- Automatic Naming of Characters in TV Video.
Scene Semantics from Long-Term Observation of People.
Guest Editorial: Video Recognition.
Recognizing human actions in still images: a study of bag-of-features and part-based representations.
Guest Editorial: Large Scale Visual Media Geo-Localization.
NetVLAD: CNN architecture for weakly supervised place recognition.
Urban-Scale Quantitative Visual Analysis.
People Watching: Human Actions as a Cue for Single View Geometry.
Visual localization by linear combination of image descriptors.
Finding Actors and Actions in Movies.
"Who are you?" - Learning person specific classifiers from video.
On Pairwise Cost for Multi-Object Network Flow Tracking.
Unsupervised discovery of visual object class hierarchies.
What makes Paris look like Paris?
Deblurring shaken and partially saturated images.
Pose Estimation and Segmentation of Multiple People in Stereoscopic Movies.
Using Multiple Segmentations to Discover Objects and their Extent in Image Collections.
Object Level Grouping for Video Shots.
In Memoriam: Mark Everingham.
Geometric LDA: A Generative Model for Particular Object Discovery.
Automatic annotation of human actions in video.
Geometric Latent Dirichlet Allocation on a Matching Graph for Large-scale Image Datasets.
Finding People in Repeated Shots of the Same Scene.
Avoiding Confusing Features in Place Recognition.
Video Data Mining Using Configurations of Viewpoint Invariant Regions.
Taking the bite out of automated naming of characters in TV video.
Segmenting Scenes by Matching Image Composites.
Automatic alignment of paintings and photographs depicting a 3D scene.
Non-uniform deblurring for shaken images.
Oxford TRECVid 2007 \u2013 Notebook paper.
Efficient visual search of images videos.
Efficient Visual Search of Videos Cast as Text Retrieval.
Semi-supervised Learning of Facial Attributes in Video.
Learning from narrated instruction videos.
Painting-to-3D model alignment via discriminative visual elements.
Learning and Transferring Mid-level Image Representations Using Convolutional Neural Networks.
Visual Place Recognition with Repetitive Structures.
Descriptor Learning for Efficient Retrieval.
Is object localization for free? - Weakly-supervised learning with convolutional neural networks.
Density-aware person detection and tracking in crowds.
On pairwise costs for network flow multi-object tracking.
Non-uniform Deblurring for Shaken Images.
Video Google: Efficient Visual Search of Videos.
Object retrieval with large vocabularies and fast spatial matching.
Deblurring Shaken and Partially Saturated Images.
Predicting Actions from Static Scenes.
Weakly Supervised Action Labeling in Videos under Ordering Constraints.
Efficient Visual Content Retrieval and Mining in Videos.
Learning person-object interactions for action recognition in still images.
Efficient object retrieval from videos.
Seeing 3D Chairs: Exemplar Part-Based 2D-3D Alignment Using a Large Dataset of CAD Models.
Learning and Calibrating Per-Location Classifiers for Visual Place Recognition.
Weakly Supervised Action Labeling in Videos Under Ordering Constraints.
Total Recall: Automatic Query Expansion with a Generative Feature Model for Object Retrieval.
24/7 place recognition by view synthesis.
Data-driven crowd analysis in videos.
Track to the future: Spatio-temporal video segmentation with long-range motion cues.
Discovering Objects and their Localization in Images.
Lost in quantization: Improving particular object retrieval in large scale image databases.
Person Spotting: Video Shot Retrieval for Face Sets.
