A Probabilistic Model for Dirty Multi-task Feature Selection.
Pruning Adaptive Boosting Ensembles by Means of a Genetic Algorithm.
Semi-Supervised Domain Adaptation with Non-Parametric Copulas.
GARCH Processes with Non-parametric Innovations for Market Risk Estimation.
Gaussianity Measures for Detecting the Direction of Causal Time Series.
Scalable Gaussian Process Classification via Expectation Propagation.
Learning and Policy Search in Stochastic Dynamical Systems with Bayesian Neural Networks.
Stochastic Expectation Propagation.
Probabilistic Backpropagation for Scalable Learning of Bayesian Neural Networks.
Gaussian Process Conditional Copulas with Applications to Financial Time Series.
Stochastic Inference for Scalable Probabilistic Modeling of Binary Matrices.
Expectation Propagation for Bayesian Multi-task Feature Selection.
Bayes Machines for binary classification.
Cold-start Active Learning with Robust Ordinal Matrix Factorization.
Minerva: Enabling Low-Power, Highly-Accurate Deep Neural Network Accelerators.
Learning Feature Selection Dependencies in Multi-task Learning.
Predictive Entropy Search for Multi-objective Bayesian Optimization.
Expectation Propagation for microarray data classification.
Black-Box Alpha Divergence Minimization.
Deep Gaussian Processes for Regression using Approximate Expectation Propagation.
Predictive Entropy Search for Efficient Global Optimization of Black-box Functions.
Predictive Entropy Search for Bayesian Optimization with Unknown Constraints.
Robust Multi-Class Gaussian Process Classification.
Gaussian Process Vine Copulas for Multivariate Dependence.
Competitive and Collaborative Mixtures of Experts for Financial Risk Analysis.
Collaborative Gaussian Processes for Preference Learning.
Regulator Discovery from Gene Expression Time Series of Malaria Parasites: a Hierachical Approach.
Expectation propagation in linear regression models with spike-and-slab priors.
Hub Gene Selection Methods for the Reconstruction of Transcription Networks.
Bringing Representativeness into Social Media Monitoring and Analysis.
Generalized spike-and-slab priors for Bayesian group feature selection using expectation propagation.
Probabilistic Matrix Factorization with Non-random Missing Data.
Gaussian Process Volatility Model.
Network-based sparse Bayesian classification.
Semiparametric bivariate Archimedean copulas.
Dynamic Covariance Models for Multivariate Financial Time Series.
Semi-Supervised Domain Adaptation with Non-Parametric Copulas
