A Parallel Learning Approach for Neural Network Ensemble.
Coalitional Planning in Game-like Domains via ATL Model Checking.
Text Summarization Based on Sentence Selection with Semantic Representation.
Strategic Ability Updating in Concurrent Games by Coalitional Commitment.
Three-Way Decision Based Overlapping Community Detection.
Cost optimal planning with multi-valued landmarks.
A Parallel Intrusion Detection System for High-Speed Networks.
A Social Influence Model Based On Circuit Theory
A Spin-Glass Model Based Local Community Detection Method in Social Networks.
Cost optimal planning with LP-based multi-valued landmark heuristic.
A framework for coalitional normative systems.
Entropy chain multi-label classifiers for traditional medicine diagnosing Parkinson's disease.
Image Denoising and Inpainting with Deep Neural Networks.
An Algorithm for Mining Top K Influential Community Based Evolutionary Outliers in Temporal Dataset.
Deep3D: Fully Automatic 2D-to-3D Video Conversion with Deep Convolutional Neural Networks.
Influence Maximization Across Partially Aligned Heterogenous Social Networks.
On the Logic of Cellular Reactive Systems.
Overlapping Community Detection via Leader-Based Local Expansion in Social Networks.
A Static Recognition Mechanism for Indirect Call Based on Static Single Assignment.
Link Communities Detection via Local Approach.
Automated Model Revision for Coordinated Open Systems.
Unsupervised Deep Embedding for Clustering Analysis.
Multi-label Emotion Classification for Tweets in Weibo: Method and Application.
Maximizing Influence Spread in a New Propagation Model.
K-Cluster Algorithm for Automatic Discovery of Subgoals in Reinforcement Learning.
Entropy chain multi-label classifiers for Traditional Medicine diagnosing Parkinson's disease.
Planning with Multi-Valued Landmarks.
The Anatomy of Web Services.
Web services: problems and future directions.
LMRL: A Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning Model and Algorithm.
A Center-Based Community Detection Method in Weighted Networks.
Temporal Reasoning in Urban Growth Simulation.
Energy Efficient Backoff Hierarchical Clustering Algorithms for Multi-Hop Wireless Sensor Networks.
Detecting Link Communities Based on Local Approach.
Multi-label Classification: Dealing with Imbalance by Combining Labels.
On the Complexity and Algorithms of Coalition Structure Generation in Overlapping Coalition Formation Games.
CPP-SNS: A Solution to Influence Maximization Problem under Cost Control.
A two-layered multi-agent reinforcement learning model and algorithm.
TeraScaler ELB-an Algorithm of Prediction-Based Elastic Load Balancing Resource Management in Cloud Computing.
False-Name-Proof Mechanisms for Path Auctions in Social Networks.
On the complexity of undominated core and farsighted solution concepts in coalitional games.
