Visual Speech Recognition with Loosely Synchronized Feature Streams.
Segment-based recognition on the phonebook task: initial results and observations on duration modeling.
Speech Production in Speech Technologies: Introduction to the CSL Special Issue.
Reconstruction of articulatory measurements with smoothed low-rank matrix completion.
Mapping Unseen Words to Task-Trained Embedding Spaces.
Deep convolutional acoustic word embeddings using word-pair side information.
Discriminative Segmental Cascades for Feature-Rich Phone Recognition.
On Deep Multi-View Representation Learning: Objectives and Optimization.
Discriminatively learning factorized finite state pronunciation models from dynamic Bayesian networks.
From Paraphrase Database to Compositional Paraphrase Model and Back.
Monolingual and crosslingual comparison of tandem features derived from articulatory and phone MLPS.
Tailoring Continuous Word Representations for Dependency Parsing.
Stochastic optimization for deep CCA via nonlinear orthogonal iterations.
Multi-view learning of acoustic features for speaker recognition.
Kernel CCA for multi-view learning of acoustic features using articulatory measurements.
Nonparametric Canonical Correlation Analysis.
Landmark-Based Speech Recognition: Report of the 2004 Johns Hopkins Summer Workshop.
Fingerspelling Recognition with Semi-Markov Conditional Random Fields.
Lexical access experiments with context-dependent articulatory feature-based models.
Charagram: Embedding Words and Sentences via Character n-grams.
Pronunciation modeling using a finite-state transducer representation.
Unsupervised learning of acoustic features via deep canonical correlation analysis.
Structurally discriminative graphical models for automatic speech recognition - results from the 2001 Johns Hopkins Summer Workshop.
Stochastic optimization for PCA and PLS.
Multistream Articulatory Feature-Based Models for Visual Speech Recognition.
Multi-view clustering via canonical correlation analysis.
Towards Universal Paraphrastic Sentence Embeddings.
Signer-independent fingerspelling recognition with deep neural network adaptation.
A factored conditional random field model for articulatory feature forced transcription.
Multi-view CCA-based acoustic features for phonetic recognition across speakers and domains.
Lexicon-Free Fingerspelling Recognition from Video: Data, Models, and Signer Adaptation.
Deep Canonical Correlation Analysis.
Production domain modeling of pronunciation for visual speech recognition.
On Deep Multi-View Representation Learning.
Audio-visual anticipatory coarticulation modeling by human and machine.
Hidden feature models for speech recognition using dynamic Bayesian networks.
Large-Scale Approximate Kernel Canonical Correlation Analysis.
Modeling pronunciation variation with context-dependent articulatory feature decision trees.
A comparison of training approaches for discriminative segmental models.
An Articulatory Feature-Based Tandem Approach and Factored Observation Modeling.
Discriminative segmental cascades for feature-rich phone recognition.
Multi-view learning with supervision for transformed bottleneck features.
Nearest Neighbors with Learned Distances for Phonetic Frame Classification.
Subword Modeling for Automatic Speech Recognition: Past, Present, and Emerging Approaches.
Deep Multilingual Correlation for Improved Word Embeddings.
Feature-based pronunciation modeling with trainable asynchrony probabilities.
Efficient Segmental Cascades for Speech Recognition.
On the phonetic information in ultrasonic microphone signals.
American sign language fingerspelling recognition with phonological feature-based tandem models.
Manual Transcription of Conversational Speech at the Articulatory Feature Level.
Stochastic Optimization for Deep CCA via Nonlinear Orthogonal Iterations.
Discriminative Pronunciation Modeling: A Large-Margin, Feature-Rich Approach.
Fixed-dimensional acoustic embeddings of variable-length segments in low-resource settings.
Articulatory feature classifiers trained on 2000 hours of telephone speech.
An Asynchronous DBN for Audio-Visual speech Recognition.
Articulatory Feature-Based Methods for Acoustic and Audio-Visual Speech Recognition: Summary from the 2006 JHU Summer workshop.
Discriminative articulatory models for spoken term detection in low-resource conversational settings.
Signer-independent Fingerspelling Recognition with Deep Neural Network Adaptation.
Discriminative training of WFST factors with application to pronunciation modeling.
Lexical modeling of non-native speech for automatic speech recognition.
Articulatory Feature Classification Using Nearest Neighbors.
Articulatory feature-based pronunciation modeling.
Discriminative spoken term detection with limited data.
