Shared Kernel Information Embedding for Discriminative Inference.
Destination Flow for Crowd Simulation.
Storyline Representation of Egocentric Videos with an Applications to Story-Based Search.
Video-based 3D motion capture through biped control.
High-Dimensional Feature Selection by Feature-Wise Kernelized Lasso.
Shining a Light on Human Pose: On Shadows, Shading and the Estimation of Pose and Shape.
Articulated Pose Estimation and Tracking: Introduction.
Human Attributes from 3D Pose Tracking.
Learning Classifiers from Synthetic Data Using a Multichannel Autoencoder.
Knowledge Transfer with Interactive Learning of Semantic Relationships.
Video Emotion Recognition with Transferred Deep Feature Encodings.
A Unified Semantic Embedding: Relating Taxonomies and Attributes.
Shared Kernel Information Embedding for discriminative inference.
Dependence Maximizing Temporal Alignment via Squared-Loss Mutual Information
Cross-Domain Matching with Squared-Loss Mutual Information.
Joint Summarization of Large-Scale Collections of Web Images and Videos for Storyline Reconstruction.
Learning from Synthetic Data Using a Stacked Multichannel Autoencoder.
Canonical locality preserving Latent Variable Model for discriminative pose inference.
Benchmark Datasets for Pose Estimation and Tracking.
Exploiting View-Specific Appearance Similarities Across Classes for Zero-Shot Pose Prediction: A Metric Learning Approach.
Joint photo stream and blog post summarization and exploration.
From Subcategories to Visual Composites: A Multi-level Framework for Object Detection.
Loose-limbed People: Estimating 3D Human Pose and Motion Using Non-parametric Belief Propagation.
Parameterizing Object Detectors in the Continuous Pose Space.
Stable spaces for real-time clothing.
Nonparametric Clustering with Distance Dependent Hierarchies.
Tracking Complex Objects Using Graphical Object Models.
Dynamical Simulation Priors for Human Motion Tracking.
High-Dimensional Feature Selection by Feature-Wise Non-Linear Lasso
Guest Editorial: State of the Art in Image- and Video-Based Human Pose and Motion Estimation.
Estimating contact dynamics.
ChaLearn multi-modal gesture recognition 2013: grand challenge and workshop summary.
Video-Based People Tracking.
Poselet Key-Framing: A Model for Human Activity Recognition.
Multi-linear Data-Driven Dynamic Hair Model with Efficient Hair-Body Collision Handling.
Social roles in hierarchical models for human activity recognition.
Facial Expression Transfer with Input-Output Temporal Restricted Boltzmann Machines.
Implicit Probabilistic Models of Human Motion for Synthesis and Tracking.
No Bias Left behind: Covariate Shift Adaptation for Discriminative 3D Pose Estimation.
3D Human Limb Detection using Space Carving and Multi-View Eigen Models.
Estimation and Prediction of Evolving Color Distributions for Skin Segmentation under Varying Illumination.
Detailed Human Shape and Pose from Images.
Predicting 3D People from 2D Pictures.
Physical simulation for probabilistic motion tracking.
Domain Adaptation for Structured Regression.
Learning to Select and Order Vacation Photographs.
Expanding object detector's Horizon: Incremental learning framework for object detection in videos.
3D Hand Pose Reconstruction Using Specialized Mappings.
Visual Analysis of Humans - Looking at People.
Gibbs Likelihoods for Bayesian Tracking.
A perceptual control space for garment simulation.
Heterogeneous Knowledge Transfer in Video Emotion Recognition, Attribution and Summarization.
Space-time tree ensemble for action recognition.
Learning to Generate Posters of Scientific Papers.
Measure Locally, Reason Globally: Occlusion-sensitive Articulated Pose Estimation.
Family Member Identification from Photo Collections.
Robust Classification by Pre-conditioned LASSO and Transductive Diffusion Component Analysis.
Human Context: Modeling Human-Human Interactions for Monocular 3D Pose Estimation.
Discovering Collective Narratives of Theme Parks from Large Collections of Visitors' Photo Streams.
Do Less and Achieve More: Training CNNs for Action Recognition Utilizing Action Images from the Web.
Attractive People: Assembling Loose-Limbed Models using Non-parametric Belief Propagation.
Action is in the Eye of the Beholder: Eye-gaze Driven Model for Spatio-Temporal Action Localization.
Skin Color-Based Video Segmentation under Time-Varying Illumination.
Learning Language-Visual Embedding for Movie Understanding with Natural-Language.
HumanEva: Synchronized Video and Motion Capture Dataset and Baseline Algorithm for Evaluation of Articulated Human Motion.
Tracking Loose-Limbed People.
Human attributes from 3D pose tracking.
Dynamical binary latent variable models for 3D human pose tracking.
Combined discriminative and generative articulated pose and non-rigid shape estimation.
Motion capture from body-mounted cameras.
Covariate Shift Adaptation for Discriminative 3D Pose Estimation.
Human Pose Estimation.
Hierarchical Maximum-Margin Clustering.
Semi-supervised Vocabulary-informed Learning.
Inferring 3D body pose using variational semi-parametric regression.
Latent Gaussian Mixture Regression for Human Pose Estimation.
Ranking and retrieval of image sequences from multiple paragraph queries.
