A hybrid term-term relations analysis approach for topic detection.
Geographical topic discovery and comparison.
Latent Community Topic Analysis: Integration of Community Discovery with Topic Modeling.
Videos Semantic Indexing using Image Classification.
Degen Generalized Cylinders and Their Properties.
Large-scale video event classification using dynamic temporal pyramid matching of visual semantics.
Faster and Cheaper: Parallelizing Large-Scale Matrix Factorization on GPUs.
Image Annotation Within the Context of Personal Photo Collections Using Hierarchical Event and Scene Models.
Annotating collections of photos using hierarchical event and scene models.
Discovering Latent Clusters from Geotagged Beach Images.
Guest Editorial: Special issue on large scale multimedia semantic indexing.
Practice in Synonym Extraction at Large Scale.
Heterogeneous feature machines for visual recognition.
Learning Locally-Adaptive Decision Functions for Person Verification.
Learning mid-level features from object hierarchy for image classification.
A Multifaceted Approach to Social Multimedia-Based Prediction of Elections.
Gender recognition from body.
3D Object Reconstruction from a Single 2D Line Drawing without Hidden Lines.
Plane-Based Optimization for 3D Object Reconstruction from Single Line Drawings.
Video2GIF: Automatic Generation of Animated GIFs from Video.
Web-Scale Multimedia Information Networks.
Proceedings of the 3rd ACM Multimedia Workshop on Geotagging and Its Applications in Multimedia, GeoMM '14, Orlando, Florida, USA, November 7, 2014
BlueFinder: estimate where a beach photo was taken.
Submodular video hashing: a unified framework towards video pooling and indexing.
Cross-dataset action detection.
GeoMM 2014: the third ACM multimedia workshop ongeotagging and its applications in multimedia.
GeoMM'12: ACM international workshop on geotagging and its applications in multimedia.
Detecting Sarcasm in Multimodal Social Platforms.
RankCompete: simultaneous ranking and clustering of web photos.
Cuteness Recognition and Localization in the Photos of Animals.
LPTA: A Probabilistic Model for Latent Periodic Topic Analysis.
Massive-scale learning of image and video semantic concepts.
Automatic Segmentation of Lung Fields from Radiographic Images of SARS Patients Using a New Graph Cuts Algorithm.
Learning to Search Efficiently in High Dimensions.
Building Joint Spaces for Relation Extraction.
Accurate and efficient reconstruction of 3D faces from stereo images.
Multi-facet Learning using Deep Convolutional Neural Network for Person-Related Categories in Photos.
Hierarchical Feature Pooling with Structure Learning: A New Method for Pedestrian Detection.
The wisdom of social multimedia: using flickr for prediction and forecast.
Hierarchical Filtered Motion for Action Recognition in Crowded Videos.
Action detection using multiple spatial-temporal interest point features.
Iterative MAP and ML Estimations for Image Segmentation.
Image annotation using personal calendars as context.
Proceedings of the ACM multimedia 2012 workshop on Geotagging and its applications in multimedia, GeoMM@ACM Multimedia 2012, Nara, Japan, October 29, 2012
Learning Latent Spatio-Temporal Compositional Model for Human Action Recognition.
Poker-CNN: A Pattern Learning Strategy for Making Draws and Bets in Poker Games Using Convolutional Networks.
Poker-CNN: A Pattern Learning Strategy for Making Draws and Bets in Poker Games.
Image Segmentation by MAP-ML Estimations.
Compositional object pattern: a new model for album event recognition.
RankCompete: Simultaneous ranking and clustering of information networks.
Scene Aligned Pooling for Complex Video Recognition.
Multiple feature fusion by subspace learning.
How Multimedia in Enterprise Social Networks Matters to People's Performance.
Enhancing semantic and geographic annotation of web images via logistic canonical correlation regression.
A Study on Sampling Strategies in Space-Time Domain for Recognition Applications.
Video Event Detection Using Temporal Pyramids of Visual Semantics with Kernel Optimization and Model Subspace Boosting.
Large-scale image classification: Fast feature extraction and SVM training.
You are what you tweet...pic! gender prediction based on semantic analysis of social media images.
Learning latent spatio-temporal compositional model for human action recognition.
Incremental Learning for Fine-Grained Image Recognition.
Annotating photo collections by label propagation according to multiple similarity cues.
The Placing Task: A Large-Scale Geo-Estimation Challenge for Social-Media Videos and Images.
IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, Multimedia Analytics: Modality Classification and Case-Based Retrieval Tasks of ImageCLEF2012.
A spatial-color layout feature for representing galaxy images.
Designing Category-Level Attributes for Discriminative Visual Recognition.
Mining Fashion Outfit Composition Using An End-to-End Deep Learning Approach on Set Data.
A worldwide tourism recommendation system based on geotaggedweb photos.
LSIF: A System for Large-Scale Information Flow Detection Based on Topic-Related Semantic Similarity Measurement.
What the Back of the Object Looks Like: 3D Reconstruction from Line Drawings without Hidden Lines.
3D object retrieval using 2D line drawing and graph based relevance reedback.
Proceedings of the 2nd ACM international workshop on Geotagging and its applications in multimedia, GeoMM@ACM Multimedia 2013, Barcelona, Spain, October 21, 2013
Medical Synonym Extraction with Concept Space Models.
Action detection in complex scenes with spatial and temporal ambiguities.
Multimedia Information Networks in Social Media.
TGIF: A New Dataset and Benchmark on Animated GIF Description.
Diversified Trajectory Pattern Ranking in Geo-tagged Social Media.
Massive-scale multimedia semantic modeling.
Learning by focusing: A new framework for concept recognition and feature selection.
Visual cube and on-line analytical processing of images.
Responses to the Comments on "Plane-Based Optimization for 3D Object Reconstruction from Single Line Drawings".
Large-Scale Geosocial Multimedia [Guest editorial].
Beyond Mahalanobis distance: Learning second-order discriminant function for people verification.
Delta-SimRank computing on MapReduce.
Spatially Coherent Latent Topic Model for Concurrent Segmentation and Classification of Objects and Scenes.
Responses to the Comments on "What the Back of the Object Looks Like: 3D Reconstruction from Line Drawings without Hidden Lines".
Max-Confidence Boosting With Uncertainty for Visual Tracking.
A general framework for efficient clustering of large datasets based on activity detection.
Efficient Maximum Appearance Search for Large-Scale Object Detection.
Surveillance Event Detection.
Second ACM multimedia workshop on geotagging and its applications in multimedia (GeoMM 2013).
Modeling Attributes from Category-Attribute Proportions.
Automated Axon Segmentation from Highly Noisy Microscopic Videos.
GPU-FV: Realtime Fisher Vector and Its Applications in Video Monitoring.
GAD: General Activity Detection for Fast Clustering on Large Data.
