Report on the XML Mining Track at INEX 2005 and INEX 2006.
Lecture Séquentielle de Documents pour la Classification.
Probabilistic Latent Tensor Factorization model for link pattern prediction.
Deep Sequential Neural Network.
Classification dans les graphes hétérogènes basée sur une représentation latente des noeuds.
Apprentissage en temps réel pour la collecte d'information dans les réseaux sociaux.
Learning latent representations of nodes for classifying in heterogeneous social networks.
Text Classification: A Sequential Reading Approach
Modèle probabiliste pour l'extraction de structures dans les documents semistructurés - Application aux documents Web.
Report on INEX 2008.
Datum-Wise Classification: A Sequential Approach to Sparsity
Apprentissage automatique de la propagation des étiquettes dans les réseaux sociaux multirelationnels.
Probabilistic Latent Tensor Factorization Model for Link Pattern Prediction in Multi-relational Networks
Car-Traffic Forecasting: A Representation Learning Approach.
Learning social network embeddings for predicting information diffusion.
Link Pattern Prediction with tensor decomposition in multi-relational networks.
Overview of the INEX 2009 XML Mining Track: Clustering and Classification of XML Documents.
Un modèle statistique pour la classification de documents structurés.
Sequence Labeling with Reinforcement Learning and Ranking Algorithms.
Choosing which message to publish on social networks: a contextual bandit approach.
Apprentissage de représentation pour la diffusion d'Information dans les réseaux sociaux.
Bayesian network model for semi-structured document classification.
A Belief Networks-Based Generative Model for Structured Documents. An Application to the XML Categorization.
Overview of the INEX 2008 XML Mining Track.
Classification automatique de documents structurés. Application au corpus d'arbres étiquetés de type XML.
Using Belief Networks and Fisher Kernels for Structured Document Classification.
Applications of Reinforcement Learning to Structured Prediction.
Modeling Relational Data via Latent Factor Blockmodel
Probabilistic Model for Structured Document Mapping.
Un modèle de mixture de modèles génératifs pour les documents structurés multimédias. Application à la classification de documents XML et HTML.
Report on the XML mining track at INEX 2005 and INEX 2006: categorization and clustering of XML documents.
Modèle probabiliste pour l'extraction de structures dans les documents web.
XML Structure Mapping.
Structured multimedia document classification.
Classification and annotation in social corpora using multiple relations.
Machine Learning for Semi-structured Multimedia Documents: Application to Pornographic Filtering and Thematic Categorization.
Modèles d'Ordonnancement pour l'Annotation Automatique d'Images dans les Réseaux Sociaux.
Apprentissage de conversion de documents semi-structurés à partir d'exemples.
Learning Information Spread in Content Networks.
Restructuration automatique de documents dans les corpus semi-structurés hétérogènes.
UPMC/LIP6 at ImageCLEFannotation2009: Large Scale Visual Concept Detection and Annotation.
The Wikipedia XML Corpus.
Sequentially Generated Instance-Dependent Image Representations for Classification.
Report on INEX 2009.
Temporal link prediction by integrating content and structure information.
WhichStreams: A Dynamic Approach for Focused Data Capture from Large Social Media.
Simulated Iterative Classification A New Learning Procedure for Graph Labeling.
Link prediction via latent factor BlockModel.
Structured prediction with reinforcement learning.
Latent Factor BlockModel for Modelling Relational Data.
Reinforced Decision Trees.
Corpus-Based Structure Mapping of XML Document Corpora: A Reinforcement Learning Based Model.
Sequential Cost-Sensitive Feature Acquisition.
Predicting information diffusion on social networks with partial knowledge.
A Ranking Based Model for Automatic Image Annotation in a Social Network.
Predicting Information Diffusion in Social Networks Using Content and User's Profiles.
Semi-Structured Document Classification.
Graph Anonymization Using Machine Learning.
Apprentissage des schémas de propagation dans les multi-graphes.
Fast Reinforcement Learning with Large Action Sets using Error-Correcting Output Codes for MDP Factorization
Sequential approaches for learning datum-wise sparse representations.
Text Classification: A Sequential Reading Approach.
Recurrent Neural Networks for Adaptive Feature Acquisition.
The Wikipedia XML corpus.
Representation Learning for cold-start recommendation.
Report on the XML mining track at INEX 2007 categorization and clustering of XML documents.
Prédiction de liens temporels en intégrant les informations de contenu et de structure.
Datum-Wise Classification: A Sequential Approach to Sparsity.
Iterative Multi-label Multi-relational Classification Algorithm for complex social networks.
Fast Reinforcement Learning with Large Action Sets Using Error-Correcting Output Codes for MDP Factorization.
Learning States Representations in POMDP.
Iterative Annotation of Multi-relational Social Networks.
