Synthesis for Structure Rewriting Systems.
Google's Neural Machine Translation System: Bridging the Gap between Human and Machine Translation.
Model Checking Games for the Quantitative µ-Calculus.
Directed Graphs of Entanglement Two.
New Algorithm for Weak Monadic Second-Order Logic on Inductive Structures.
Learning Games from Videos Guided by Descriptive Complexity.
Logic and Games on Automatic Structures - Playing with Quantifiers and Decompositions
The Field of Reals is not omega-Automatic.
Adding Gradient Noise Improves Learning for Very Deep Networks.
Program Search as a Path to Artificial General Intelligence.
Confluence of Right Ground Term Rewriting Systems Is Decidable.
Characterising Choiceless Polynomial Time with First-Order Interpretations.
Logic and games on automatic structures.
Machine Learning with Guarantees using Descriptive Complexity and SMT Solvers.
First-Order Logic with Counting for General Game Playing.
Experiments with Reduction Finding.
TensorFlow: Large-Scale Machine Learning on Heterogeneous Distributed Systems.
Entanglement and the complexity of directed graphs.
A Counting Logic for Structure Transition Systems.
Model-Theoretic Properties of ω-Automatic Structures.
Model Checking the Quantitative mu-Calculus on Linear Hybrid Systems
Information Tracking in Games on Graphs.
MPIDepQBF: Towards Parallel QBF Solving without Knowledge Sharing.
Model Checking Games for the Quantitative mu-Calculus
Graph Searching Games and Width Measures for Directed Graphs.
Cardinality Quantifiers in MLO over Trees.
A Perfect-Information Construction for Coordination in Games.
Directed Width Measures and Monotonicity of Directed Graph Searching.
A Unified Approach to Boundedness Properties in MSO.
Solving Counter Parity Games.
Expressing Cardinality Quantifiers in Monadic Second-Order Logic over Trees.
Model Checking Games for the Quantitative 
Degrees of Lookahead in Regular Infinite Games
Cardinality and counting quantifiers on omega-automatic structures.
Game Quantification on Automatic Structures and Hierarchical Model Checking Games.
Model Checking the Quantitative 
Multi-task Sequence to Sequence Learning.
Cardinality and counting quantifiers on omega-automatic structures
Degrees of Lookahead in Regular Infinite Games.
Sentence Compression by Deletion with LSTMs.
Expressing cardinality quantifiers in monadic second-order logic over chains.
Neural GPUs Learn Algorithms.
Grammar as a Foreign Language.
