The 2005 PASCAL Visual Object Classes Challenge.
Person Recognition in Personal Photo Collections.
A category-level 3-D object dataset: Putting the Kinect to work.
RGBD Semantic Segmentation Using Spatio-Temporal Data-Driven Pooling.
Learning Smooth Pooling Regions for Visual Recognition.
Learning to Select Long-Track Features for Structure-From-Motion and Visual SLAM.
Recognition of ongoing complex activities by sequence prediction over a hierarchical label space.
Semi-Supervised Learning on a Budget: Scaling Up to Large Datasets.
Practical 3-D object detection using category and instance-level appearance models.
Classifying materials in the real world.
Visual Stability Prediction and Its Application to Manipulation.
Xplore-M-Ego: Contextual Media Retrieval Using Natural Language Queries.
Appearance-based gaze estimation in the wild.
Sequential Bayesian Model Update under Structured Scene Prior for Semantic Road Scenes Labeling.
Pick Your Neighborhood - Improving Labels and Neighborhood Structure for Label Propagation.
A Multi-World Approach to Question Answering about Real-World Scenes based on Uncertain Input.
Hard to Cheat: A Turing Test based on Answering Questions about Images.
Visual grasp affordances from appearance-based cues.
Discriminative structure learning of hierarchical representations for object detection.
Towards Robust Pedestrian Detection in Crowded Image Sequences.
Modeling, representing and learning of visual categories.
Prediction of search targets from fixations in open-world settings.
Learnable Pooling Regions for Image Classification
The Pooled NBNN Kernel: Beyond Image-to-Class and Image-to-Image.
Contextual Media Retrieval Using Natural Language Queries.
Discovery of activity patterns using topic models.
The NBNN kernel.
VConv-DAE: Deep Volumetric Shape Learning Without Object Labels.
Timely Object Recognition.
To Fall Or Not To Fall: A Visual Approach to Physical Stability Prediction.
I spy with my little eye: Learning optimal filters for cross-modal stereo under projected patterns.
Mean Box Pooling: A Rich Image Representation and Output Embedding for the Visual Madlibs Task.
Adapting Visual Category Models to New Domains.
A Pooling Approach to Modelling Spatial Relations for Image Retrieval and Annotation.
Ubic: Bridging the Gap between Digital Cryptography and the Physical World.
Parametrized shape models for clothing.
Size Matters: Metric Visual Search Constraints from Monocular Metadata.
Towards Unsupervised Discovery of Visual Categories.
Hierarchical Support Vector Random Fields: Joint Training to Combine Local and Global Features.
DeLight-Net: Decomposing Reflectance Maps into Specular Materials and Natural Illumination.
Ask Your Neurons: A Neural-Based Approach to Answering Questions about Images.
Computer Vision Systems, 7th International Conference on Computer Vision Systems, ICVS 2009, Liège, Belgium, October 13-15, 2009, Proceedings
Multi-Cue Zero-Shot Learning with Strong Supervision.
An Additive Latent Feature Model for Transparent Object Recognition.
RALF: A reinforced active learning formulation for object class recognition.
Faceless Person Recognition; Privacy Implications in Social Media.
Spatio-Temporal Image Boundary Extrapolation.
Faceless Person Recognition: Privacy Implications in Social Media.
A Category-Level 3D Object Dataset: Putting the Kinect to Work.
Ubic: Bridging the gap between digital cryptography and the physical world.
GazeDPM: Early Integration of Gaze Information in Deformable Part Models.
Learning Multi-Scale Representations for Material Classification.
See the Difference: Direct Pre-Image Reconstruction and Pose Estimation by Differentiating HOG.
Novel Views of Objects from a Single Image.
Teaching robots the use of human tools from demonstration with non-dexterous end-effectors.
Image-Based Synthesis and Re-synthesis of Viewpoints Guided by 3D Models.
Towards Segmenting Consumer Stereo Videos: Benchmark, Baselines and Ensembles.
Object Disambiguation for Augmented Reality Applications.
Deep Reflectance Maps.
Perception for the manipulation of socks.
Improving the Kinect by Cross-Modal Stereo.
A geometric approach to robotic laundry folding.
Multi-class Video Co-segmentation with a Generative Multi-video Model.
Ask Your Neurons: A Deep Learning Approach to Visual Question Answering.
Ask Your Neurons: A Neural-based Approach to Answering Questions about Images.
Anytime Recognition of Objects and Scenes.
Sparselet Models for Efficient Multiclass Object Detection.
Tutor-based learning of visual categories using different levels of supervision.
I-Pic: A Platform for Privacy-Compliant Image Capture.
Towards a Visual Turing Challenge.
Object Tracking and Pose Estimation Using Light-Field Object Models.
Integrating Representative and Discriminative Models for Object Category Detection.
Appearance-Based Gaze Estimation in the Wild.
Recognizing Materials from Virtual Examples.
Learning to Detect Visual Grasp Affordance.
A probabilistic model for recursive factorized image features.
Active Metric Learning for Object Recognition.
Demo: I-Pic: A Platform for Privacy-Compliant Image Capture.
Decomposition, discovery and detection of visual categories using topic models.
On the Significance of Real-World Conditions for Material Classification.
Joint segmentation and activity discovery using semantic and temporal priors.
