Efficient Closed-Form Solution to Generalized Boundary Detection.
Generalized Boundaries from Multiple Image Interpretations.
Aerial image geolocalization from recognition and matching of roads and intersections.
Efficient Model Creation of Large Structures based on Range Segmentation.
Beyond Local Appearance: Category Recognition from Pairwise Interactions of Simple Features.
Semi-supervised learning and optimization for hypergraph matching.
A Spectral Technique for Correspondence Problems Using Pairwise Constraints.
Unsupervised Learning for Graph Matching.
Locally Affine Sparse-to-Dense Matching for Motion and Occlusion Estimation.
Labeling the Features Not the Samples: Efficient Video Classification with Minimal Supervision.
Unsupervised Learning of Object Features from Video Sequences.
Generalized Boundaries from Multiple Image Interpretations
Smoothing-based Optimization.
Discovering Texture Regularity as a Higher-Order Correspondence Problem.
Features in Concert: Discriminative Feature Selection meets Unsupervised Clustering.
3D Modeling of Historic Sites Using Range and Image Data.
The Moving Pose: An Efficient 3D Kinematics Descriptor for Low-Latency Action Recognition and Detection.
Discriminative Sparse Image Models for Class-Specific Edge Detection and Image Interpretation.
Thoughts on a Recursive Classifier Graph: a Multiclass Network for Deep Object Recognition.
Efficient MAP approximation for dense energy functions.
Online Selection of Discriminative Tracking Features.
Stories in the Eye: Contextual Visual Interactions for Efficient Video to Language Translation.
Dual Local-Global Contextual Pathways for Recognition in Aerial Imagery.
Multiple Frames Matching for Object Discovery in Video.
Automated Feature-Based Range Registration of Urban Scenes of Large Scale.
Efficient Hypergraph Clustering.
An Integer Projected Fixed Point Method for Graph Matching and MAP Inference.
Unsupervised learning for graph matching.
New Methods for Digital Modeling of Historic Sites.
