Semi-supervised Laplacian Regularization of Kernel Canonical Correlation Analysis.
Learning Fully-Connected CRFs for Blood Vessel Segmentation in Retinal Images.
Efficient Subwindow Search: A Branch and Bound Framework for Object Localization.
Semi-supervised kernel canonical correlation analysis with application to human fMRI.
Learning from M/EEG Data with Variable Brain Activation Delays.
Structured prediction by joint kernel support estimation.
Branch and Bound Strategies for Non-maximal Suppression in Object Detection.
Efficient, dense, object-based segmentation from RGBD video.
Convex relaxations of penalties for sparse correlated variables with bounded total variation.
Slack and Margin Rescaling as Convex Extensions of Supermodular Functions.
Automatic In Situ Identification of Plankton.
Unsupervised Spatio-Temporal Segmentation with Sparse Spectral-Clustering.
The Lovász Hinge: A Convex Surrogate for Submodular Losses.
Taxonomic Prediction with Tree-Structured Covariances.
A Note on k-support Norm Regularized Risk Minimization
Simultaneous Object Detection and Ranking with Weak Supervision.
Augmenting Feature-driven fMRI Analyses: Semi-supervised learning and resting state activity.
Kernel methods in computer vision: object localization, clustering, and taxonomy discovery.
An 
Beyond sliding windows: Object localization by efficient subwindow search.
fMRI Analysis with Sparse Weisfeiler-Lehman Graph Statistics.
Guest Editorial: Special Issue on Structured Prediction and Inference.
Learning equivariant structured output SVM regressors.
Perceptron Learning of SAT.
Combining Local and Global Image Features for Object Class Recognition.
Learning Submodular Losses with the Lovasz Hinge.
Learning a category independent object detection cascade.
The pyramid quantized Weisfeiler-Lehman graph representation.
Discovering predictors of mental health service utilization with k-support regularized logistic regression.
Understanding Objects in Detail with Fine-Grained Attributes.
Learning to Localize Objects with Structured Output Regression.
B-test: A Non-parametric, Low Variance Kernel Two-sample Test.
A Multiple Kernel Learning Approach to Joint Multi-class Object Detection.
Sparse Classification with MRI Based Markers for Neuromuscular Disease Categorization.
Predictive sparse modeling of fMRI data for improved classification, regression, and visualization using the k-support norm.
A Convex Surrogate Operator for General Non-Modular Loss Functions.
Taxonomic Multi-class Prediction and Person Layout Using Efficient Structured Ranking.
Correlational spectral clustering.
Stochastic Function Norm Regularization of Deep Networks.
Fine-Grained Visual Classification of Aircraft.
Discriminative training of CRF models with probably submodular constraints.
Object Localization with Global and Local Context Kernels.
Unsupervised Object Discovery: A Comparison.
A low variance consistent test of relative dependency.
Learning Taxonomies by Dependence Maximization.
Non Maximal Suppression in Cascaded Ranking Models.
A Test of Relative Similarity For Model Selection in Generative Models.
FMRI analysis of cocaine addiction using k-support sparsity.
