Variational Dropout and the Local Reparameterization Trick.
Scalable Overlapping Community Detection.
A Constrained EM Algorithm for Independent Component Analysis.
Collapsed Variational Inference for HDP.
Learning in Markov Random Fields with Contrastive Free Energies.
Bayesian dark knowledge.
On the Choice of Regions for Generalized Belief Propagation
Bayesian Model Scoring in Markov Random Fields.
Deep Spiking Networks.
On Herding and the Perceptron Cycling Theorem.
Generalized Belief Propagation on Tree Robust Structured Region Graphs
Computer Vision - ECCV 2016 - 14th European Conference, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, October 11-14, 2016, Proceedings, Part I
The Variational Fair Autoencoder.
Positive tensor factorization.
Evidence Estimation for Bayesian Partially Observed MRFs.
Asynchronous Distributed Learning of Topic Models.
Austerity in MCMC Land: Cutting the Metropolis-Hastings Budget
Herding Dynamic Weights for Partially Observed Random Field Models.
Approximate Slice Sampling for Bayesian Posterior Inference.
Approximate inference by Markov chains on union spaces.
A Distributed Message Passing Algorithm for Sensor Localization.
Viewpoint-Invariant Learning and Detection of Human Heads.
Memory bounded inference in topic models.
Bayesian Dark Knowledge.
Distributed and Adaptive Darting Monte Carlo through Regenerations.
A note on privacy preserving iteratively reweighted least squares.
Practical Privacy For Expectation Maximization.
Incremental learning of nonparametric Bayesian mixture models.
State of the Journal.
Statistical Tests for Optimization Efficiency.
Proceedings of the Twelfth International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics, AISTATS 2009, Clearwater Beach, Florida, USA, April 16-18, 2009
Exponential Family Harmoniums with an Application to Information Retrieval.
A Collapsed Variational Bayesian Inference Algorithm for Latent Dirichlet Allocation.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 27: Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems 2014, December 8-13 2014, Montreal, Quebec, Canada
The Time-Marginalized Coalescent Prior for Hierarchical Clustering.
Energy-Based Models for Sparse Overcomplete Representations.
Approximate inference in Boltzmann machines.
Herding as a Learning System with Edge-of-Chaos Dynamics.
A Cluster-Cumulant Expansion at the Fixed Points of Belief Propagation.
Semisupervised Classifier Evaluation and Recalibration
Parametric Herding.
A Cluster-Cumulant Expansion at the Fixed Points of Belief Propagation
Bayesian Random Fields: The Bethe-Laplace Approximation.
An Expectation Maximization Algorithm for Inferring Offset-Normal Shape Distributions.
Bayesian K-Means as a "Maximization-Expectation" Algorithm.
GPS-ABC: Gaussian Process Surrogate Approximate Bayesian Computation.
On the Theory and Practice of Privacy-Preserving Bayesian Data Analysis.
MLitB: machine learning in the browser.
Unsupervised Discovery of Nonlinear Structure Using Contrastive Backpropagation.
Localization Algorithms for Wireless Sensor Retrieval.
Deterministic Latent Variable Models and Their Pitfalls.
Structured Region Graphs: Morphing EP into GBP
Wormholes Improve Contrastive Divergence.
Computer Vision - ECCV 2016 - 14th European Conference, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, October 11-14, 2016, Proceedings, Part V
A Lazy Man's Approach to Benchmarking: Semisupervised Classifier Evaluation and Recalibration.
Large-Scale Distributed Bayesian Matrix Factorization using Stochastic Gradient MCMC.
Integrating local classifiers through nonlinear dynamics on label graphs with an application to image segmentation.
Computer Vision - ECCV 2016 - 14th European Conference, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, October 11-14, 2016, Proceedings, Part II
Product of experts.
Distributed Inference for Latent Dirichlet Allocation.
Predicting simulation parameters of biological systems using a Gaussian process model.
Learning the Irreducible Representations of Commutative Lie Groups.
Herding dynamical weights to learn.
Bayesian Matrix Factorization with Side Information and Dirichlet Process Mixtures.
Exploiting the Statistics of Learning and Inference.
Statistical Optimization of Non-Negative Matrix Factorization.
Generalized Darting Monte Carlo.
Editor's Note.
Bayesian Posterior Sampling via Stochastic Gradient Fisher Scoring.
Topographic Product Models Applied to Natural Scene Statistics.
Generalized darting Monte Carlo.
Optimization Monte Carlo: Efficient and Embarrassingly Parallel Likelihood-Free Inference.
Hamiltonian ABC.
Distributed Algorithms for Topic Models.
Fast collapsed gibbs sampling for latent dirichlet allocation.
Extreme Components Analysis.
Efficient Gradient-Based Inference through Transformations between Bayes Nets and Neural Nets.
Collapsed Variational Dirichlet Process Mixture Models.
Linear Response for Approximate Inference.
On Smoothing and Inference for Topic Models
The Unified Propagation and Scaling Algorithm.
Group Equivariant Convolutional Networks.
Dynamical Products of Experts for Modeling Financial Time Series.
Austerity in MCMC Land: Cutting the Metropolis-Hastings Budget.
Robust Higher Order Statistics.
Computer Vision - ECCV 2016 - 14th European Conference, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, October 11-14, 2016, Proceedings, Part IV
Scalable Inference on Kingman's Coalescent using Pair Similarity .
Combining Generative Models and Fisher Kernels for Object Recognition.
Harmonic Exponential Families on Manifolds.
Gibbs Sampling for (Coupled) Infinite Mixture Models in the Stick Breaking Representation.
Auto-Encoding Variational Bayes.
MLitB: Machine Learning in the Browser.
Distributed Stochastic Gradient MCMC.
Herded Gibbs Sampling
Super-Samples from Kernel Herding
Towards Automatic Discovery of Object Categories.
Bayesian 
Probabilistic sequential independent components analysis.
Learning Sparse Topographic Representations with Products of Student-t Distributions.
Semi-Supervised Classification with Graph Convolutional Networks.
Products of Edge-perts.
Generalized Belief Propagation on Tree Robust Structured Region Graphs.
Super-Samples from Kernel Herding.
Sequential Tests for Large-Scale Learning.
Stochastic Collapsed Variational Bayesian Inference for Latent Dirichlet Allocation
Computer Vision - ECCV 2016 - 14th European Conference, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, October 11-14, 2016, Proceedings, Part VII
On Smoothing and Inference for Topic Models.
Accelerated Variational Dirichlet Process Mixtures.
Structured Region Graphs: Morphing EP into GBP.
Semi-supervised Learning with Deep Generative Models.
Marrying Graphical Models with Deep Learning.
Transformation Properties of Learned Visual Representations.
Unsupervised learning of visual taxonomies.
Markov Chain Monte Carlo and Variational Inference: Bridging the Gap.
Bayesian Structure Learning for Markov Random Fields with a Spike and Slab Prior
Computer Vision - ECCV 2016 - 14th European Conference, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, October 11-14, 2016, Proceedings, Part VI
Herding Dynamic Weights for Partially Observed Random Field Models
Hidden-Unit Conditional Random Fields.
Exchangeable inconsistent priors for Bayesian posterior inference.
Structured and Efficient Variational Deep Learning with Matrix Gaussian Posteriors.
A New Learning Algorithm for Mean Field Boltzmann Machines.
Base Station Localization in Search of Empty Spectrum Spaces in Cognitive Radio Networks.
Semi-Supervised Learning with Deep Generative Models.
Efficient Parametric Projection Pursuit Density Estimation.
Improving Variational Inference with Inverse Autoregressive Flow.
Hybrid Variational/Gibbs Collapsed Inference in Topic Models.
POPE: post optimization posterior evaluation of likelihood free models.
Belief Optimization for Binary Networks: A Stable Alternative to Loopy Belief Propagation
Stochastic collapsed variational Bayesian inference for latent Dirichlet allocation.
The rate adapting poisson model for information retrieval and object recognition.
A New Method to Visualize Deep Neural Networks.
Bayesian Structure Learning for Markov Random Fields with a Spike and Slab Prior.
Unsupervised Learning of Models for Recognition.
On the Choice of Regions for Generalized Belief Propagation.
Unsupervised Organization of Image Collections: Taxonomies and Beyond.
Efficient Parametric Projection Pursuit Density Estimation
Computer Vision - ECCV 2016 - 14th European Conference, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, October 11-14, 2016, Proceedings, Part III
Bayesian Extreme Components Analysis.
Belief Optimization for Binary Networks: A Stable Alternative to Loopy Belief Propagation.
Hybrid Variational/Gibbs Collapsed Inference in Topic Models
Bayesian Learning via Stochastic Gradient Langevin Dynamics.
Linear Response Algorithms for Approximate Inference in Graphical Models.
On Improving the Efficiency of the Iterative Proportional Fitting Procedure.
Hybrid Generative-Discriminative Visual Categorization.
Self Supervised Boosting.
Scalable MCMC for Mixed Membership Stochastic Blockmodels.
Infinite State Bayes-Nets for Structured Domains.
Private Topic Modeling.
Multi-HDP: A Non Parametric Bayesian Model for Tensor Factorization.
Preface.
Computer Vision - ECCV 2016 - 14th European Conference, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, October 11-14, 2016, Proceedings, Part VIII
