ERD'14: Entity Recognition and Disambiguation Challenge.
Dual Coordinate Descent Algorithms for Efficient Large Margin Structured Prediction.
Analysis of Nonstationary Time Series Using Support Vector Machines.
Analysis of switching dynamics with competing support vector machines.
Personalized Spam Filtering for Gray Mail.
Learning to extract cross-session search tasks.
Novel Approach to Fuzzy-Wavelet ECG Signal Analysis for a Mobile Device.
Discriminative Learning over Constrained Latent Representations.
ERD'14: entity recognition and disambiguation challenge.
Unified Expectation Maximization.
Energy-Efficient Real-Time Co-scheduling of Multimedia DSP Jobs.
Question Answering Using Enhanced Lexical Semantic Models.
Placer++: Semantic place labels beyond the visit.
Learning and Inference with Constraints.
Annotating Derivations: A New Evaluation Strategy and Dataset for Algebra Word Problems.
Semantic Parsing via Staged Query Graph Generation: Question Answering with Knowledge Base.
Importance of Semantic Representation: Dataless Classification.
Structured Output Learning with Indirect Supervision.
The Value of Semantic Parse Labeling for Knowledge Base Question Answering.
Entity Linking on Microblogs with Spatial and Temporal Signals.
Relation Alignment for Textual Entailment Recognition.
Virtual keyboard for head mounted display-based wearable devices.
Structured prediction with indirect supervision.
IllinoisSL: A JAVA Library for Structured Prediction.
E2E: An End-to-End Entity Linking System for Short and Noisy Text.
Wikification and Beyond: The Challenges of Entity and Concept Grounding.
Segmentation based stereo matching using color grouping.
Simulation and fabrication of HF microelectromechanical bandpass filter.
Toward Socially-Infused Information Extraction: Embedding Authors, Mentions, and Entities.
ERD'14, Proceedings of the First ACM International Workshop on Entity Recognition & Disambiguation, July 11, 2014, Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia
Modeling action-level satisfaction for search task satisfaction prediction.
S-MART: Novel Tree-based Structured Learning Algorithms Applied to Tweet Entity Linking.
Partitioned logistic regression for spam filtering.
A Pipeline Model for Bottom-Up Dependency Parsing.
Guiding Semi-Supervision with Constraint-Driven Learning.
Fabrication and characterization of a microelectromechanical tunable capacitor.
Leave-One-Out Bounds for Support Vector Regression Model Selection.
To Link or Not to Link? A Study on End-to-End Tweet Entity Linking.
Inferring Missing Entity Type Instances for Knowledge Base Completion: New Dataset and Methods.
Open Domain Question Answering via Semantic Enrichment.
Modified Frequency-Partitioned Spectrum Estimation for a Wireless Health Advanced Monitoring Bio-Diagnosis System.
Structured learning with constrained conditional models.
Modeling and fabrication of a microelectromechanical microwave switch.
A Pipeline Framework for Dependency Parsing.
Learning shared body plans.
Implementation and Optimization of DSP Suspend Resume on Dual-Core SOC.
Driving Semantic Parsing from the World's Response.
Unsupervised Constraint Driven Learning For Transliteration Discovery.
The Necessity of Combining Adaptation Methods.
Personalized ranking model adaptation for web search.
