Nonparametric Bayesian Logic.
Adaptive MCMC with Bayesian Optimization.
"Name That Song!" A Probabilistic Approach to Querying on Music and Text.
Sequential Monte Carlo for model selection and estimation of neural networks.
Reversible Jump MCMC Simulated Annealing for Neural Networks.
New inference strategies for solving Markov Decision Processes using reversible jump MCMC.
Intracluster Moves for Constrained Discrete-Space MCMC.
Reversible Jump MCMC Simulated Annealing for Neural Networks
Proceedings of the Twenty-Eighth Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence, Catalina Island, CA, USA, August 14-18, 2012
Extraction of Salient Sentences from Labelled Documents.
Target-directed attention: Sequential decision-making for gaze planning.
A Machine Learning Perspective on Predictive Coding with PAQ8.
Learning where to Attend with Deep Architectures for Image Tracking
Prediction and Fault Detection of Environmental Signals with Uncharacterised Faults.
Preference galleries for material design.
Nonparametric Bayesian Logic
Intracluster Moves for Constrained Discrete-Space MCMC
Learning attentional policies for tracking and recognition in video with deep networks.
Conditional mean field.
Adaptive Hamiltonian and Riemann Manifold Monte Carlo.
Deep Multi-Instance Transfer Learning.
From Fields to Trees.
Linear and Parallel Learning of Markov Random Fields.
Bayesian Optimization in a Billion Dimensions via Random Embeddings
The Unscented Particle Filter.
Learning to Learn and Compositionality with Deep Recurrent Neural Networks: Learning to Learn and Compositionality.
Hedging Strategies for Bayesian Optimization
On correlation and budget constraints in model-based bandit optimization with application to automatic machine learning.
Consistency of Online Random Forests.
Deep Fried Convnets.
Asymptotic Efficiency of Deterministic Estimators for Discrete Energy-Based Models: Ratio Matching and Pseudolikelihood.
Bayesian Optimization in High Dimensions via Random Embeddings.
Robust Full Bayesian Learning for Radial Basis Networks.
Toward Practical N2 Monte Carlo: the Marginal Particle Filter.
Learning to learn by gradient descent by gradient descent.
A Deep Architecture for Semantic Parsing.
A Bayesian Interactive Optimization Approach to Procedural Animation Design.
Theoretical Analysis of Bayesian Optimisation with Unknown Gaussian Process Hyper-Parameters.
A Constrained Semi-supervised Learning Approach to Data Association.
Beat Tracking the Graphical Model Way.
Bayesian Policy Learning with Trans-Dimensional MCMC.
Bayesian Multi-Scale Optimistic Optimization.
Decentralized, Adaptive, Look-Ahead Particle Filtering
An interior-point stochastic approximation method and an L1-regularized delta rule.
Best arm identification via Bayesian gap-based exploration
Learning to Recognize Objects with Little Supervision.
Rao-Blackwellised Particle Filtering via Data Augmentation.
Bayesian Feature Weighting for Unsupervised Learning, with Application to Object Recognition.
Learning about individuals from group statistics
A Tutorial on Bayesian Optimization of Expensive Cost Functions, with Application to Active User Modeling and Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning
On Autoencoders and Score Matching for Energy Based Models.
Fast particle smoothing: if I had a million particles.
Exponential Regret Bounds for Gaussian Process Bandits with Deterministic Observations.
From Group to Individual Labels Using Deep Features.
Inductive Principles for Restricted Boltzmann Machine Learning.
Active Preference Learning with Discrete Choice Data.
A Machine Learning Perspective on Predictive Coding with PAQ
Learning about Individuals from Group Statistics.
A tutorial on stochastic approximation algorithms for training Restricted Boltzmann Machines and Deep Belief Nets.
Bayesian Optimization in a Billion Dimensions via Random Embeddings.
ACDC: A Structured Efficient Linear Layer.
Variational MCMC.
Modelling, Visualising and Summarising Documents with a Single Convolutional Neural Network.
Fast Krylov Methods for N-Body Learning.
Hot Coupling: A Particle Approach to Inference and Normalization on Pairwise Undirected Graphs.
Rao-Blackwellised Particle Filtering for Dynamic Bayesian Networks
A Blessing of Dimensionality: Measure Concentration and Probabilistic Inference.
Unbounded Bayesian Optimization via Regularization.
Herded Gibbs Sampling
Proceedings of the Twenty-Eighth Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence (2012)
Dueling Network Architectures for Deep Reinforcement Learning.
Fast Computational Methods for Visually Guided Robots.
A Semi-supervised Learning Approach to Object Recognition with Spatial Integration of Local Features and Segmentation Cues.
Predicting Parameters in Deep Learning.
A Boosted Particle Filter: Multitarget Detection and Tracking.
Analysis of Particle Methods for Simultaneous Robot Localization and Mapping and a New Algorithm: Marginal-SLAM.
Robust Visual Tracking for Multiple Targets.
Large-Flip Importance Sampling.
Active Policy Learning for Robot Planning and Exploration under Uncertainty.
Self-Avoiding Random Dynamics on Integer Complex Systems.
A Statistical Model for General Contextual Object Recognition.
An Expectation Maximization Algorithm for Continuous Markov Decision Processes with Arbitrary Reward.
Rao-Blackwellised Particle Filtering for Dynamic Bayesian Networks.
Efficient Learning of Practical Markov Random Fields with Exact Inference.
Variational MCMC
Learning to Communicate to Solve Riddles with Deep Distributed Recurrent Q-Networks.
Neural Programmer-Interpreters.
Distributed Parameter Estimation in Probabilistic Graphical Models.
Inference and Learning for Active Sensing, Experimental Design and Control.
On Sparse, Spectral and Other Parameterizations of Binary Probabilistic Models.
Taking the Human Out of the Loop: A Review of Bayesian Optimization.
Learning Where to Attend with Deep Architectures for Image Tracking.
An Entropy Search Portfolio for Bayesian Optimization.
An Introduction to MCMC for Machine Learning.
Heteroscedastic Treed Bayesian Optimisation.
Asymptotic Efficiency of Deterministic Estimators for Discrete Energy-Based Models: Ratio Matching and Pseudolikelihood
Bayesian Optimization with an Empirical Hardness Model for approximate Nearest Neighbour Search.
Narrowing the Gap: Random Forests In Theory and In Practice.
Recklessly Approximate Sparse Coding
Real-Time Monitoring of Complex Industrial Processes with Particle Filters.
The Sound of an Album Cover: A Probabilistic Approach to Multimedia.
New inference strategies for solving Markov Decision Processes using reversible jump MCMC
A Bayesian exploration-exploitation approach for optimal online sensing and planning with a visually guided mobile robot.
Regret Bounds for Deterministic Gaussian Process Bandits
Learning to Communicate with Deep Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning.
Large-Flip Importance Sampling
Portfolio Allocation for Bayesian Optimization.
Matching Words and Pictures.
Toward Practical N2 Monte Carlo: the Marginal Particle Filter
From Fields to Trees
Fast maximum a-posteriori inference on Monte Carlo state spaces.
