Ranking with ordered weighted pairwise classification.
Towards Understanding Situated Natural Language.
Learning Scoring Functions with Order-Preserving Losses and Standardized Supervision.
Robust Bloom Filters for Large MultiLabel Classification Tasks.
Improving Image Annotation in Imbalanced Classification Problems with Ranking SVM.
Generalization error bounds for classifiers trained with interdependent data.
Incorporating prior knowledge into a transductive ranking algorithm for multi-document summarization.
"On the (Non-)existence of Convex, Calibrated Surrogate Losses for Ranking".
Learning from Multiple Partially Observed Views - an Application to Multilingual Text Categorization.
Episodic Exploration for Deep Deterministic Policies: An Application to StarCraft Micromanagement Tasks.
Theory of Optimizing Pseudolinear Performance Measures: Application to F-measure.
A Selective Sampling Strategy for Label Ranking.
UPMC/LIP6 at ImageCLEFannotation 2010.
Multiview Semi-supervised Learning for Ranking Multilingual Documents.
Learning-based summarisation of XML documents.
Combining coregularization and consensus-based self-training for multilingual text categorization.
Guarantees for Approximate Incremental SVMs.
Predicting Critical Intradomain Routing Events.
Label Ranking under Ambiguous Supervision for Learning Semantic Correspondences.
A Transductive Bound for the Voted Classifier with an Application to Semi-supervised Learning.
Combining Two and Three-Way Embedding Models for Link Prediction in Knowledge Bases.
Transductive learning over automatically detected themes for multi-document summarization.
Learning to Rank for Collaborative Filtering.
Learning to summarise XML documents using content and structure.
Optimizing F-Measures by Cost-Sensitive Classification.
Combining Two And Three-Way Embeddings Models for Link Prediction in Knowledge Bases.
Large-scale Simple Question Answering with Memory Networks.
Résumé automatique de texte avec un algorithme d'ordonnancement.
UHigh-Level Feature Detection with Forests of Fuzzy Decision Trees combined with the RankBoost Algorithm.
Constructing and Mining Web-scale Knowledge Graphs.
An empirical comparison of V-fold penalisation and cross-validation for model selection in distribution-free regression.
Multiview self-learning.
Translating Embeddings for Modeling Multi-relational Data.
Composing Relationships with Translations.
Filtrage Collaboratif avec un Algorithme d'Ordonnancement.
A Coverage-Based Approach to Recommendation Diversity On Similarity Graph.
Effective Blending of Two and Three-way Interactions for Modeling Multi-relational Data.
On Binary Reduction of Large-Scale Multiclass Classification Problems.
Open Question Answering with Weakly Supervised Embedding Models.
Calibration and regret bounds for order-preserving surrogate losses in learning to rank.
LIP6 at INEX'10: OWPC for Ad Hoc Track.
LIP6 at INEX'09: OWPC for Ad Hoc Track.
Combinaison de fonctions de préférence par boosting pour la recherche de passages dans les systèmes de question/réponse.
Learnable Ranking Models for Automatic Text Summarization and Information Retrieval.
How should we evaluate supervised hashing?
Ranking with non-random missing ratings: influence of popularity and positivity on evaluation metrics.
PAC-Bayes Bounds for the Risk of the Majority Vote and the Variance of the Gibbs Classifier.
Automatic Text Summarization Based on Word-Clusters and Ranking Algorithms.
Learning with Partially Labeled and Interdependent Data
Apprentissage de fonctions d'ordonnancement par classification de paires ordonnées et pondérées (OWPC).
Sequence Labelling SVMs Trained in One Pass.
Connecting Language and Knowledge Bases with Embedding Models for Relation Extraction.
Irreflexive and Hierarchical Relations as Translations
Une méthode contextuelle d'extension de requête avec des groupements de mots pour le résumé automatique.
WSABIE: Scaling Up to Large Vocabulary Image Annotation.
Large scale image annotation: learning to rank with joint word-image embeddings.
Factorisation en matrices non négatives pour le filtrage collaboratif.
A case study in a recommender system based on purchase data.
