Ultrasound Image Segmentation With Shape Priors: Application to Automatic Cattle Rib-Eye Area Estimation.
C-HiLasso: A Collaborative Hierarchical Sparse Modeling Framework.
Dictionary learning and sparse coding for unsupervised clustering.
Collaborative Sources Identification in Mixed Signals via Hierarchical Sparse Modeling
Robust Multimodal Graph Matching: Sparse Coding Meets Graph Matching.
A-Contrario Localization of Epileptogenic Zones in Spect Images.
Source separation with scattering Non-Negative Matrix Factorization.
C-HiLasso: A Collaborative Hierarchical Sparse Modeling Framework
Sparse Modeling of Intrinsic Correspondences.
Learning Efficient Sparse and Low Rank Models.
Classification and clustering via dictionary learning with structured incoherence and shared features.
Collaborative hierarchical sparse modeling.
Classification, Averaging and Reconstruction of Macromolecules in Electron Tomography.
Sparse Modeling of Intrinsic Correspondences
Collaborative sources identification in mixed signals via hierarchical sparse modeling.
Super-Resolution with Deep Convolutional Sufficient Statistics.
Audio restoration from multiple copies.
Bilevel Sparse Models for Polyphonic Music Transcription.
Questionnaire simplification for fast risk analysis of children's mental health.
Gaussian mixture models for score-informed instrument separation.
Supervised Sparse Analysis and Synthesis Operators.
Learning Efficient Structured Sparse Models
Learnable low rank sparse models for speech denoising.
Learning Robust Low-Rank Representations
Supervised non-euclidean sparse NMF via bilevel optimization with applications to speech enhancement.
Accelerating Eulerian Fluid Simulation With Convolutional Networks.
Multi-temporal foreground detection in videos.
Audio Source Separation with Discriminative Scattering Networks.
Real-time Online Singing Voice Separation from Monaural Recordings Using Robust Low-rank Modeling.
Learning efficient sparse and low rank models
Learning Efficient Structured Sparse Models.
Collaborative Hierarchical Sparse Modeling
Sparse similarity-preserving hashing.
