Joint Network and Rate Allocation for Simultaneous Wireless Applications.
Distortion Estimation for Temporal Layered Video Coding.
Client Clustering and Joint Multistream FEC Rate Allocation in IPTV Systems.
Multiscale event detection in social media.
Graph-based classification for multiple observations of transformed patterns.
ARMS: adaptive rich media secure streaming.
Joint reconstruction of correlated images from compressed linear measurements.
Structured Dimensionality Reduction for Additive Model Regression.
Scalable video dissemination with prioritized network coding.
Distributed Representation of Geometrically Correlated Images With Compressed Linear Measurements.
A comparative study of DASH representation sets using real user characteristics.
Growth Codes: Intermediate Performance Analysis and Application to Video.
Joint Reconstruction of Multi-view Compressed Images
Signal Processing on Graphs: Extending High-Dimensional Data Analysis to Networks and Other Irregular Data Domains
Selection of Network Coding Nodes for Minimal Playback Delay in Streaming Overlays.
Fast MVC prediction structure selection for interactive multiview video streaming.
Rate-distortion analysis of multiview coding in a DIBR framework.
Nonparametric least squares regression for image reconstruction on the sphere.
Multiple description image coding with redundant expansions and optimal quantization.
An adaptive cross layer resource allocation scheme for correlated wireless video sources.
Distributed group testing detection in sensor networks.
Polynomial Filtering for Fast Convergence in Distributed Consensus.
OmniSIFT: Scale invariant features in omnidirectional images.
Super-resolution from unregistered omnidirectional images.
Distributed media rate allocation in multipath networks.
Joint Reconstruction of Multiview Compressed Images.
Fast Index Assignment for Balanced N-Description Scalar Quantization.
Toward One Symbol Network Coding Vectors.
ICon: Interference concentration for uplink in multicell OFDMA networks.
Bit rate allocation for disparity estimation from compressed images.
Image alignment with rotation manifolds built on sparse geometric expansions.
Curvature analysis of pattern transformation manifolds.
Multi-task additive models with shared transfer functions based on dictionary learning.
Coarse scene geometry estimation from sparse approximations of multi-view omnidirectional images.
Semantic Coding by Supervised Dimensionality Reduction.
Classification of unions of subspaces with sparse representations.
Rate-distortion optimized distributed packet scheduling of multiple video streams over shared communication resources.
Performance bounds for sensor data gathering by coding in finite fields.
Optimal layered representation for adaptive interactive multiview video streaming.
Markov Decision Process Based Energy-Efficient On-Line Scheduling for Slice-Parallel Video Decoders on Multicore Systems
Optimal FEC rate for media streaming in active networks.
Low bit-rate compression of omnidirectional images.
Distributed Packet Scheduling of Multiple Video Streams over Shared Communication Resources.
Profit Optimization for Wireless Video Broadcasting Systems Based on Polymatroidal Analysis.
Scale-Invariant Features and Polar Descriptors in Omnidirectional Imaging.
Fast keyword detection with sparse time-frequency models.
Optimal Selection of Adaptive Streaming Representations.
Network Coding of Rateless Video in Streaming Overlays.
Distributed Rate Allocation in Inter-Session Network Coding
Joint Network and Rate Allocation for Video Streaming over Multiple Wireless Networks.
Media Streaming with Conservative Delay on Variable Rate Channels.
Distributed Congestion Control of Scalable Video Streams.
Multiple Description Coding with Redundant Expansions and Application to Image Communications.
Chebyshev Polynomial Approximation for Distributed Signal Processing
Graph-based classification of multiple observation sets.
Optimal Layered Representation for Adaptive Interactive Multiview Video Streaming.
Joint source and sending rate modeling in adaptive video streaming.
Context-Adaptive Information Flow Allocation and Media Delivery in Online Social Networks.
In-network view re-sampling for interactive free viewpoint video streaming.
Video Packet Selection and Scheduling for Multipath Streaming.
Approximate Decoding Approaches for Network Coded Correlated Data
Distributed sensor failure detection in sensor networks.
Dimensionality Reduction with Adaptive Approximation.
Dictionary Learning for Fast Classification Based on Soft-thresholding.
User-Oriented QoS Analysis in MPEG-2 Video Delivery.
Network Coding and Media Streaming (Invited Paper).
Wyner-Ziv Coding of Multi-View Omnidirectional Imageswith Overcomplete Decompositions.
Joint server scheduling and proxy caching for video delivery.
Tangent-based manifold approximation with locally linear models.
Randomized Network Coding for UEP video delivery in overlay networks.
Distributed signal processing with graph spectral dictionaries.
Low-Complexity Adaptive Streaming via Optimized A Priori Media Pruning.
Approximation of pattern transformation manifolds with parametric dictionaries.
Joint Source/FEC Rate Selection for Optimal MPEG-2 Video Delivery.
Reference View Selection in DIBR-Based Multiview Coding.
Inference of mobility patterns via Spectral Graph Wavelets.
Thresholding-based reconstruction of compressed correlated signals.
Consistent view synthesis in interactive multiview imaging.
Distributed Average Consensus With Quantization Refinement.
Multi-View Video Packet Scheduling
Securing media for adaptive streaming.
Optimal polynomial filtering for accelerating distributed consensus.
Coding Structure and Replication Optimization for Interactive Multiview Video Streaming.
P2P video streaming with inter-session network coding.
Multi-graph learning of spectral graph dictionaries.
Sparse stereo image coding with learned dictionaries.
Redundant image representations in security applications.
Optimizing Multiview Video Plus Depth Prediction Structures for Interactive Multiview Video Streaming.
Balanced multiple description scalar quantization.
Compressed classification of observation sets with linear subspace embeddings.
Rate-Distortion Optimized Bandwidth Adaptation for Distributed Media Delivery.
Distortion-buffer optimized tcp video streaming.
Learning Smooth Pattern Transformation Manifolds
Correlation estimation from compressed images.
Distributed Signal Processing via Chebyshev Polynomial Approximation
Network Coding Meets Multimedia: A Review.
Distributed sensor failure detection in sensor networks
Network Coding Node Placement for Delay Minimization in Streaming Overlays.
Joint Registration and Super-Resolution With Omnidirectional Images.
Image Registration with Sparse Approximations in Parametric Dictionaries.
Graph-Based Representation for Multiview Image Geometry.
Finite Length Performance of Random Slotted ALOHA Strategies.
Fast distortion-buffer optimized streaming of multimedia.
Learning Parametric Dictionaries for Signals on Graphs.
Minimum Distance between Pattern Transformation Manifolds: Algorithm and Applications.
Delay-based overlay construction in P2P video broadcast.
Sparse molecular image representation.
Video face recognition with graph-based semi-supervised learning.
Luminance coding in graph-based representation of multiview images.
Approximate decoding for network coded inter-dependent data.
Learning pattern transformation manifolds for classification.
Clustering on Multi-Layer Graphs via Subspace Analysis on Grassmann Manifolds.
The Virtue of Patience in Low-Complexity Scheduling of Packetized Media With Feedback.
Distributed Media Rate Allocation in Overlay Networks.
Graph-Based Compression of Dynamic 3D Point Cloud Sequences.
Seismic Simultaneous Source Separation via Patchwise Sparse Representation.
Sampling-aware polar descriptors on the sphere.
Distance-based discretization of parametric signal manifolds.
L1 regularized super-resolution from unregistered omnidirectional images.
Quality-of-Experience-Aware Design in Next-Generation Wireless Networks [Guest Editorial].
Multiview Navigation based on Extended Layered Depth Image Representation.
Tangent-based manifold approximation with locally linear models
AMISP: a complete content-based MPEG-2 error-resilient scheme.
Optimal image alignment with random measurements.
Correlation-aware reconstruction of network coded sources.
Signal Processing Challenges in Distributed Stream Processing Systems.
Guest Editorial.
Symmetric distributed coding of stereo omnidirectional images.
Clustering on Multi-Layer Graphs via Subspace Analysis on Grassmann Manifolds
A note on the data-driven capacity of P2P networks
Fast encoding techniques for Multiview Video Coding.
Navigation domain partitioning for interactive multiview imaging
Prioritized Random MAC Optimization via Graph-based Analysis.
Progressive Low Bit Rate Coding of Simple 3D Objects with Matching Pursuit.
Playback Delay Optimization in Scalable Video Streaming.
Optimal Representations for Adaptive Streaming in Interactive Multi-View Video Systems.
Sparse Approximation Using M-Term Pursuit and Application in Image and Video Coding.
Network Coding Meets Multimedia: a Review
Multi-modal image retrieval with random walk on multi-layer graphs.
Correlation-Aware Resource Allocation in Multi-Cell Networks.
Adaptive video streaming in lossy networks: versions or layers?
Distributed Image Processing [From the Guest Editors].
Rate-Distortion Analysis of Multiview Coding in a DIBR Framework
Optimal Image Alignment With Random Projections of Manifolds: Algorithm and Geometric Analysis.
Special Section on Interactive Multimedia.
Distributed Collaboration for Enhanced Sender-Driven Video Streaming.
3D geometry representation using multiview coding of image tiles.
MVMP: Multi-view Matching Pursuit with geometry constraints.
Degree distribution optimization in Raptor network coding.
Motion estimation from compressed linear measurements.
A performance study of the tangent distance method in transformation-invariant image classification.
Analysis of Image Registration with Tangent Distance.
Low-complexity multiview video coding.
Batched patch caching for streaming media.
Distributed wireless video caching placement for dynamic adaptive streaming.
Flexible forward error correction codes with application to partial media data recovery.
Learning parametric dictionaries for graph signals.
Multiresolution motion estimation for omnidirectional images.
Adaptive Prioritized Random Linear Coding and Scheduling for Layered Data Delivery From Multiple Servers.
Optical flow and depth from motion for omnidirectional images using a TV-L1 variational framework on graphs.
Discretization of Parametrizable Signal Manifolds
Coding with Temporal Layers or Multiple Descriptions for Lossy Video Transmission.
A Poisson Hidden Markov Model for Multiview Video Traffic
Distributed Streaming via Packet Partitioning.
High-flexibility scalable image coding.
Correlation Estimation from Compressed Images
Progressive Coding of 3-D Objects Based on Overcomplete Decompositions.
Image registration with sparse approximations in parametric dictionaries
Distributed Representation of Geometrically Correlated Images with Compressed Linear Measurements
3D face recognition using sparse spherical representations.
Sparse FEC codes for flexible media protection.
Prioritized Random MAC Optimization Via Graph-Based Analysis.
Multiview video representations for quality-scalable navigation.
Reconstruction of Network Coded Sources From Incomplete Datasets.
Linear manifold approximation based on differences of tangents.
Graph-based representation and coding of 3D images for interactive multiview navigation.
Image reconstruction from compressed linear measurements with side information.
Interactive Multiview Video System With Low Complexity 2D Look Around at Decoder.
Pattern Detection by Distributed Feature Extraction.
Multi-stream partitioning and parity rate allocation for scalable IPTV delivery.
Correlation-aware packet scheduling for multi-camera streaming.
Navigation Domain Representation For Interactive Multiview Imaging.
Analysis of Descent-Based Image Registration
Packet scheduling in multicamera capture systems.
Transmission of correlated information sources with network coding.
A Variational Framework for Structure from Motion in Omnidirectional Image Sequences.
Forward Error Correction for Multipath Media Streaming.
Selection of network coding nodes for minimal playback delay in streaming overlays
Analysis of classifiers' robustness to adversarial perturbations.
Near-optimal content replication for interactive multiview video streaming.
Adaptive and robust media streaming over multiple channels with bursty losses.
Interactive multiview video system with non-complex navigation at the decoder
FEC performance in multimedia streaming.
A non-stationary Hidden Markov Model of multiview video traffic.
Distributed Coding of Spherical Images with Jointly Refined Decoding.
Distributed rate allocation in switch-based multiparty videoconference.
Joint source/FEC rate selection for quality-optimal MPEG-2 video delivery.
Analysis of Descent-Based Image Registration.
Online learning adaptation strategy for DASH clients.
Polynomial Filtering for Fast Convergence in Distributed Consensus
Progressive quantization in distributed average consensus
MP3D: highly scalable video coding scheme based on matching pursuit.
Special issue on resource-aware adaptive video streaming.
Learning Graphs from Signal Observations under Smoothness Prior.
Distributed Classification of Multiple Observation Sets by Consensus.
Low-rate and flexible image coding with redundant representations.
Ultrasound tomography with learned dictionaries.
Extended Layered Depth Image Representation in Multiview Navigation.
Joint decoding of stereo JPEG image Pairs.
In-Network View Synthesis for Interactive Multiview Video Systems.
Contour approximation & depth image coding for virtual view synthesis.
Transformation-invariant dictionary learning for classification with 1-Sparse representations.
Correlation-Aware Packet Scheduling in Multi-Camera Networks.
Collaborative P2P Streaming of Interactive Live Free Viewpoint Video
Distributed rate allocation in P2P networks with inter-session network coding.
Color image scalable coding with matching pursuit.
Prioritized Distributed Video Delivery With Randomized Network Coding.
Clustering on multi-layer graphs via subspace analysis on Grassmann manifolds.
An improved foresighted resource reciprocation strategy for multimedia streaming applications.
Adaptive Prioritized Random Linear Coding and Scheduling for Layered Data Delivery from Multiple Servers.
Optimal set of video representations in adaptive streaming.
Alignment of uncalibrated images for multi-view classification.
A Poisson Hidden Markov Model for Multiview Video Traffic.
Temporal and Inter-View Consistent Error Concealment Technique for Multiview Plus Depth Video.
3D face recognition with sparse spherical representations.
Intermediate Performance Analysis of Growth Codes
Distributed Sensing of Noisy Signals by Thresholding of Redundant Expansions.
New dictionary and fast atom searching method for matching pursuit representation of displaced frame difference.
Clustering with Multi-Layer Graphs: A Spectral Perspective
ACM workshop on advanced video streaming techniques for peer-to-peer networks and social networking.
Optimal proxy management for multimedia streaming in content distribution networks.
Decoding Delay Minimization in Inter-Session Network Coding
Robustness of classifiers: from adversarial to random noise.
Decoding Delay Minimization in Inter-Session Network Coding.
Improved Utility-based Congestion Control for Low-Delay Communication.
Special issue on wireless multimedia sensor networks.
Dense disparity estimation from omnidirectional images.
Compressed network coding: Overcome all-or-nothing problem in finite fields.
Media Flow Rate Allocation in Multipath Networks.
Joint reconstruction of correlated images from compressed images.
Progressive quantization in distributed average consensus.
Graph-based compression of dynamic 3D point cloud sequences.
Approximate decoding approaches for network coded correlated data.
Plenoptic based super-resolution for omnidirectional image sequences.
Classification of multiple observations by semi-supervised learning
Manitest: Are classifiers really invariant?
Coding and replication co-design for interactive multiview video streaming.
DeepFool: a simple and accurate method to fool deep neural networks.
R-D optimized auxiliary information for inpainting-based view synthesis.
Learning of structured graph dictionaries.
Graph-based representation and coding of multiview geometry.
An overview of network coding for multimedia streaming.
A geometric framework for registration of sparse images.
Graph-based motion estimation and compensation for dynamic 3D point cloud compression.
Structured sparse coding for image denoising or pattern detection.
Bayesian Early Mode Decision Technique for View Synthesis Prediction-Enhanced Multiview Video Coding.
Graph-based representation for multiview image coding.
Optimal Lagrange Multipliers for Dependent Rate Allocation in Video Coding.
Classification-Specific Feature Sampling for Face Recognition.
Dictionary learning for fast classification based on soft-thresholding.
Key view selection in distributed multiview coding.
Re-sampling and interpolation of DIBR-synthesized images using graph-signal smoothness prior.
Conditions for recovery of sparse signals correlated by local transforms.
The Emerging Field of Signal Processing on Graphs: Extending High-Dimensional Data Analysis to Networks and Other Irregular Domains.
Laplacian matrix learning for smooth graph signal representation.
Loss-resilient window-based congestion control.
Joint Smoothing and Source Rate Selection for Guaranteed Service Networks.
Dictionary Learning.
Encoder-Driven Inpainting Strategy in Multiview Video Compression.
Parametric dictionary learning for graph signals.
Dense disparity estimation from linear measurements.
3D Face Recognition with Sparse Spherical Representations
Media Coding for Streaming in Networks with Source and Path Diversity.
Proceedings of the second "international Traveling Workshop on Interactions between Sparse models and Technology" (iTWIST'14).
Optimized Packet Scheduling in Multiview Video Navigation Systems.
Geometry-Based Distributed Scene Representation With Omnidirectional Vision Sensors.
TV-regularized generation of planar images from omnicams.
Playback delay and buffering optimization in scalable video broadcasting.
EXIT Chart-Based Side Information Refinement for Wyner-Ziv Video Coding.
Dependent Packet Transmission Policies in Rate-Distortion Optimized Media Scheduling.
Rate distorsion analysis in a disparity compensated scheme.
Clustering With Multi-Layer Graphs: A Spectral Perspective.
Dictionary Learning for Stereo Image Representation.
Distributed Rate Allocation in Inter-Session Network Coding.
On the Curvature of Pattern Transformation Manifolds: Numerical Estimation and Applications.
Improved approximate decoding based on position information matrix.
Media Aware Routing in Large Scale Networks with Overlay.
Thresholding-based reconstruction of compressed correlated signals
Optimized MVC Prediction Structures for Interactive Multiview Video Streaming.
Low complexity iterative multimedia resource allocation based on game theoretic approach.
Markov Decision Process Based Energy-Efficient On-Line Scheduling for Slice-Parallel Video Decoders on Multicore Systems.
A regularization framework for mobile social network analysis.
Multiple Description Video Coding With H.264/AVC Redundant Pictures.
Rate-Distortion Optimized Packet Scheduling Over Bottleneck Links.
Interactive multiview video system with low decoding complexity.
A posteriori quantization of progressive matching pursuit streams.
The virtue of patience when scheduling media in presence of feedback.
Distributed Coding of Multiresolution Omnidirectional Images.
Error control for Video Streaming with Small Data Units.
Graph-based vs depth-based data representation for multiview images.
Multiscale Event Detection in Social Media.
Omnidirectional Views Selection for Scene Representation.
Correlation-aware Resource Allocation in Multi-Cell Networks
Joint reconstruction of compressed multi-view images.
Flexible motion-adaptive video coding with redundant expansions.
Guest Editorial: Wireless multimedia transmission technology and application.
A Posteriori Quantized Matching Pursuit.
Optimized Adaptive Streaming Representations based on System Dynamics.
Geometry-based distributed coding of multi-view omnidirectional images.
Plenoptic spherical sampling.
Unbalanced Quantized Multiple State Video Coding.
Guest Editorial Cross-layer Optimized Wireless Multimedia Communications.
Special issue on image and video coding beyond standards.
Collaborative video streaming with Raptor network coding.
Chebyshev polynomial approximation for distributed signal processing.
Finding "Who Is Talking to Whom" in VoIP Networks via Progressive Stream Clustering.
Interactive free viewpoint video streaming using prioritized network coding.
Learning Smooth Pattern Transformation Manifolds.
Distributed classification of multiple observations by consensus.
Guided inpainting with cluster-based auxiliary information.
Accelerating Distributed Consensus Using Extrapolation.
Anchor View Allocation for Collaborative Free Viewpoint Video Streaming.
Packet Media Streaming with Imprecise Rate Estimation.
Multicamera Information Processing: Acquisition, Collaboration, Interpretation, and Production.
NC node selection game in collaborative streaming systems.
Efficient image representation by anisotropic refinement in matching pursuit.
The M-term pursuit for image representation and progressive compression.
Distributed multi-view image coding with learned dictionaries.
Discretization of Parametrizable Signal Manifolds.
Interactive 3D video streaming [Guest Editorial].
Streaming of Scalable Video from Multiple Servers using Rateless Codes.
Distributed SVM Applied to Image Classification.
EXIT-Based Side Information Refinement in Wyner-Ziv Video Coding.
Evolutionary multiresolution Matching Pursuit and its relations with the human visual system.
