Learning Scoring Functions with Order-Preserving Losses and Standardized Supervision.
Probabilistic Model for Structured Document Mapping.
Semi-Supervised Learning with Explicit Misclassification Modeling.
Erratum: SGDQN is Less Careful than Expected.
On the relations between discriminant analysis and multilayer perceptrons.
Solving multiclass support vector machines with LaRank.
Stroke level HMMs for on-line handwriting recognition.
Multi-view clustering of multilingual documents.
"On the (Non-)existence of Convex, Calibrated Surrogate Losses for Ranking".
Report on INEX 2008.
From characters to words: dynamical segmentation and predictive neural networks.
Multi-Modal Segmental Models for On-Line Handwriting Recognition.
Iterative Multi-label Multi-relational Classification Algorithm for complex social networks.
Représentations et régularisations pour la classification de sentiments.
Apprentissage de comportements utilisateurs de produits hypermédias.
Variable selection with neural networks.
A self-training method for learning to rank with unlabeled data.
Apprentissage de représentation pour la diffusion d'Information dans les réseaux sociaux.
Génération automatique d'une structure hiérarchique de concepts et de documents à partir de corpus.
Overview of the INEX 2008 XML Mining Track.
Using Belief Networks and Fisher Kernels for Structured Document Classification.
Representation Learning for Information Diffusion through Social Networks: an Embedded Cascade Model.
Modeling Relational Data via Latent Factor Blockmodel
Local search and pseudoinversion: an hybrid approach to neural network training.
Recommandation et analyse de sentiments dans un espace latent textuel.
UPMC/LIP6 at ImageCLEF's WikipediaMM: An Image-Annotation Model for an Image Search-Engine.
Clustering en haute dimension par accumulation de clusterings locaux.
The use of unlabeled data to improve supervised learning for text summarization.
Global discrimination for neural predictive systems based on N-best algorithm.
Integrating heuristic preferences into a neural understanding system.
A comparison of discriminative classifiers for web news content extraction.
Sequence Models for Automatic Highlighting and Surface Information Extraction.
Generalization error bounds for classifiers trained with interdependent data.
A generic approach for on-line handwriting recognition.
Apprentissage de conversion de documents semi-structurés à partir d'exemples.
Computational Experience with Pseudoinversion-Based Training of Neural Networks Using Random Projection Matrices.
Preventing adverse drug events by extracting information from drug fact sheets.
Flexible Grid-Based Clustering.
A Hidden Markov Models combination framework for handwriting recognition.
Temporal link prediction by integrating content and structure information.
The Importance of the Depth for Text-Image Selection Strategy in Learning-To-Rank.
Learning for Sequence Extraction Tasks.
A Flexible Recognition Engine for Complex On-line Handwritten Character Recognition.
Precision recall with user modeling (PRUM): Application to structured information retrieval.
Diagnosis Tools for Telecommunication Network Traffic Management.
Predicting information diffusion on social networks with partial knowledge.
Ranking with non-random missing ratings: influence of popularity and positivity on evaluation metrics.
Data Driven Design of an ANN/HMM System for On-line Unconstrained Handwritten Character Recognition.
Graph Anonymization Using Machine Learning.
Un modèle statistique pour la classification de documents structurés.
Twelve Numerical, Symbolic and Hybrid Supervised Classification Methods.
LSHTC: A Benchmark for Large-Scale Text Classification.
Rejection measures for handwriting sentence recognition.
Coping with the Document Frequency Bias in Sentiment Classification.
Text Classification: A Sequential Reading Approach.
Probabilistic Multi-classifier by SVM from voting rule to voting features.
Apprentissage de fonctions d'ordonnancement par classification de paires ordonnées et pondérées (OWPC).
Ré-ordonnancement pour l'apprentissage de transformations de documents HTML.
Identification of Atrophy Patterns in Alzheimer's Disease Based on SVM Feature Selection and Anatomical Parcellation.
OCReP: An Optimally Conditioned Regularization for pseudoinversion based neural training.
Link prediction via latent factor BlockModel.
Linear Bandits in Unknown Environments.
Fast Reinforcement Learning with Large Action Sets Using Error-Correcting Output Codes for MDP Factorization.
Learning States Representations in POMDP.
Dynamic Data Capture from Social Media Streams: A Contextual Bandit Approach.
Automatic Text Summarization Based on Word-Clusters and Ranking Algorithms.
Lecture Séquentielle de Documents pour la Classification.
Deep Sequential Neural Network.
Classification dans les graphes hétérogènes basée sur une représentation latente des noeuds.
Supervised and Semi-supervised Machine Learning Ranking.
Apprentissage en temps réel pour la collecte d'information dans les réseaux sociaux.
Learning latent representations of nodes for classifying in heterogeneous social networks.
From Layout to Semantic: a Reranking Model for Mapping Web Documents to Mediated XML Representations.
Extracting Information from Summary of Product Characteristics for Improving Drugs Prescription Safety.
Sélection de modèles par des méthodes à noyaux pour la classification de données séquentielles.
A Cross-Domain Recommendation Model for Cyber-Physical Systems.
Learning social network embeddings for predicting information diffusion.
Datum-Wise Classification: A Sequential Approach to Sparsity.
A Belief Networks-Based Generative Model for Structured Documents. An Application to the XML Categorization.
Learning Distributed Representations of Users for Source Detection in Online Social Networks.
Bayesian network model for semi-structured document classification.
Un modèle de mixture de modèles génératifs pour les documents structurés multimédias. Application à la classification de documents XML et HTML.
Multiview semi-supervised ranking for automatic image annotation.
Maximum mutual information training for an online neural predictive handwritten word recognition system.
Machine Learning Ranking for Structured Information Retrieval.
Neural networks for discrimination and modelization of speakers.
Consortium AVEIR at ImageCLEFphoto 2008: on the Fusion of Runs.
Improving document clustering in a learned concept space.
Combining Statistical Models for Protein Secondary Structure Prediction.
An analysis of numerical issues in neural training by pseudoinversion.
Matrix Pseudoinversion for Image Neural Processing.
A Model-Based Approach to Sequence Clustering.
Utilisation de concepts visuels et de la diversité visuelle pour améliorer la recherche d'images.
Classification automatique de documents structurés. Application au corpus d'arbres étiquetés de type XML.
Modèle probabiliste pour l'extraction de structures dans les documents semistructurés - Application aux documents Web.
An Hybrid MLP-SVM Handwritten Digit Recognizer.
The Wikipedia XML Corpus.
Optimal Linear Regression on Classifier Outputs.
Filtrage collaboratif et intégration de la polarité des jugements.
Using RankBoost to compare retrieval systems.
Simulated Iterative Classification A New Learning Procedure for Graph Labeling.
Cross-media sentiment classification and application to box-office forecasting.
Extraction d'un vocabulaire de surprise par mélange de filtrage collaboratif et d'analyse de sentiments.
Structured prediction with reinforcement learning.
Exploitation du contenu visuel pour améliorer la recherche textuelle d'images en ligne.
Combinaison de fonctions de préférence par boosting pour la recherche de passages dans les systèmes de question/réponse.
Learnable Ranking Models for Automatic Text Summarization and Information Retrieval.
Exploiting Visual Concepts to Improve Text-Based Image Retrieval.
Experimental Evaluation of the Value of Structure: How to Efficiently Exploit Interdependencies in Sequence Labeling.
Predictive Models for Sequence Modelling, Application to Speech and Character Recognition.
Adaptive discrimination in an HMM-based neural predictive system for on-line word recognition.
BioASQ: A Challenge on Large-Scale Biomedical Semantic Indexing and Question Answering.
Multi-state predictive neural networks for text-independent speaker recognition.
Sequential approaches for learning datum-wise sparse representations.
Coupled Hierarchical IR and Stochastic Models for Surface Information Extraction.
Apprentissage d'ordonnancements en recherche d'information structurée.
On Effectiveness Measures and Relevance Functions in Ranking INEX Systems.
Report on INEX 2009.
Factorisation en matrices non négatives pour le filtrage collaboratif.
Unsupervised Learning with Term Clustering for Thematic Segmentation of Texts.
De l'utilisation d'OBD pour la sélection de variables dans les perceptrons multicouches.
Dictionary Preselection in a Neuro-Markovian Word Recognition System.
Machine Learning Ranking and INEX'05.
Multilabel Classification on Heterogeneous Graphs with Gaussian Embeddings.
Off-Line Cursive Word Recognition with a Hybrid Neural-HMM System.
Classification and Tracking of Hypermedia Navigation Patterns.
Bandit contextuel pour la capture de données temps réel sur les médias sociaux.
Learning for Text Summarization Using Labeled and Unlabeled Sentences.
Probabilistic Latent Tensor Factorization model for link pattern prediction.
Report on the XML mining track at INEX 2007 categorization and clustering of XML documents.
Robust Bloom Filters for Large MultiLabel Classification Tasks.
Apprentissage de représentations probabilistes pour la prédiction de diffusions d'informations sur les réseaux sociaux.
An Algebra for Structured Queries in Bayesian Networks.
A Selective Sampling Strategy for Label Ranking.
Apprentissage des schémas de propagation dans les multi-graphes.
Apprentissage statistique pour la constitution des corpus d'évaluation.
Document structure meets page layout: loopy random fields for web news content extraction.
Overview of the INEX 2009 XML Mining Track: Clustering and Classification of XML Documents.
Sequence Labeling with Reinforcement Learning and Ranking Algorithms.
Choosing which message to publish on social networks: a contextual bandit approach.
Report on the XML Mining Track at INEX 2005 and INEX 2006.
Automatic learning of domain model for personalized hypermedia applications.
Automatic Text Summarization Using Unsupervised and Semi-supervised Learning.
State Sharing in a Hybrid Neuro-Markovian On-Line Handwriting Recognition System through a Simple Hierarchical Clustering Algorithm.
Applications of Reinforcement Learning to Structured Prediction.
Restructuration automatique de documents dans les corpus semi-structurés hétérogènes.
Learning "Generalization/Specialization" Relations between Concepts - Application for Automatically Building Thematic Document Hierarchies.
Extracting Diffusion Channels from Real-World Social Data: a Delay-Agnostic Learning of Transmission Probabilities.
Sentence Recognition through Hybrid Neuro-Markovian Modeling.
Learning to Rank for Collaborative Filtering.
Représentation temporelle des mots : application au clustering de micro-blogs.
A Ranking Based Model for Automatic Image Annotation in a Social Network.
Multiple Multivariate Regression and Global Optimization in a Large Scale Thermodynamical Application.
LIP6 at INEX'09: OWPC for Ad Hoc Track.
Improving Image Annotation in Imbalanced Classification Problems with Ranking SVM.
Résumé automatique de texte avec un algorithme d'ordonnancement.
A Learning to Rank framework applied to text-image retrieval.
Prediction and discrimination in neural networks for continuous speech recognition.
Policies for Contextual Bandit Problems with Count Payoffs.
Improved performance in protein secondary structure prediction by inhomogeneous score combination.
Learning Information Spread in Content Networks.
Comparison of Various AVEIR Visual Concept Detectors with an Index of Carefulness.
Discriminative training for improved neural prediction systems.
Un système d'aide à la navigation dans des hypermédias.
An extension of PLSA for document clustering.
Efficient Data Clustering by Local Density Approximation.
Polarité des jugements et des interactions pour le filtrage collaboratif et la prédiction de liens sociaux.
Machine Learning for Semi-structured Multimedia Documents: Application to Pornographic Filtering and Thematic Categorization.
Latent Factor BlockModel for Modelling Relational Data.
A hidden Markov model extension of a neural predictive system for on-line character recognition.
Mining Ticketing Logs for Usage Characterization with Nonnegative Matrix Factorization.
Extended Recommendation Framework: Generating the Text of a User Review as a Personalized Summary.
Fast Reinforcement Learning with Large Action Sets using Error-Correcting Output Codes for MDP Factorization
A Novel Multimodal Deep Neural Network Framework for Extending Knowledge Base.
A Latent Representation Model for Sentiment Analysis in Heterogeneous Social Networks.
Strategies for Combining On-line and Off-line Information in an On-line Handwriting Recognition System.
Réseau de neurones profond et SVM pour la classification des sentiments.
Sequentially Generated Instance-Dependent Image Representations for Classification.
Éditorial.
Characterizing Sequences of User Actions for Access Logs Analysis.
A neural predictive approach for on-line cursive script recognition.
A Bayesian Framework for XML Information Retrieval: Searching and Learning with the INEX Collection.
Using Structure For Information Extraction In Html Documents.
A Machine Learning based Approach to Evaluating Retrieval Systems.
An MLP-SVM combination architecture for offline handwritten digit recognition: Reduction of recognition errors by Support Vector Machines rejection mechanisms.
Iterative Annotation of Multi-relational Social Networks.
Web-scale classification: web classification in the big data era.
Relaxation Labeling for Selecting and Exploiting Efficiently Non-local Dependencies in Sequence Labeling.
Latent Trajectory Modeling: A Light and Efficient Way to Introduce Time in Recommender Systems.
Practical complexity control in multilayer perceptrons.
Classification and annotation in social corpora using multiple relations.
UPMC/LIP6 at ImageCLEFannotation 2010.
Learning Classification with Both Labeled and Unlabeled Data.
Text Classification: A Sequential Reading Approach
SGD-QN: Careful Quasi-Newton Stochastic Gradient Descent.
Datum-Wise Classification: A Sequential Approach to Sparsity
Apprentissage automatique de la propagation des étiquettes dans les réseaux sociaux multirelationnels.
Probabilistic Latent Tensor Factorization Model for Link Pattern Prediction in Multi-relational Networks
Link Pattern Prediction with tensor decomposition in multi-relational networks.
A system for the extraction and representation of summary of product characteristics content.
Modèles d'Ordonnancement pour l'Annotation Automatique d'Images dans les Réseaux Sociaux.
An Algebra for Probabilistic XML Retrieval.
Speech processing and recognition using integrated neurocomputing techniques (Esprit Basic Research Action 3228: SPRINT).
Using Visual Concepts and Fast Visual Diversity to Improve Image Retrieval.
Semi-supervised learning with an imperfect supervisor.
An overview of the BIOASQ large-scale biomedical semantic indexing and question answering competition.
Learning to Extract Content from News Webpages.
Knowledge base completion by learning pairwise-interaction differentiated embeddings.
UPMC/LIP6 at ImageCLEFphoto 2008: on the Exploitation of Visual Concepts (VCDT).
Graph Based Method Approach to the ImageCLEF2015 Task1 - Image Annotation.
Report on the XML mining track at INEX 2005 and INEX 2006: categorization and clustering of XML documents.
Recommandation par combinaison de filtrage collaboratif et d'analyse de sentiments.
Neural and adaptive controllers for a non-minimum phase varying time-delay system.
Apprentissage de Relations entre Concepts - Génération Automatique d'une Structuration Hiérarchique à partir de Corpus.
XML Structure Mapping.
Learning to summarise XML documents using content and structure.
Structured multimedia document classification.
Apprentissage d'un espace de concepts de mots pour une nouvelle représentation des données textuelles.
Multiple multivariate regression and global sequence optimization: : An application to large-scale models of radiation intensity.
A Comparative Study of Diversity Methods for Hybrid Text and Image Retrieval Approaches.
Semi Supervised Logistic Regression.
Online Handwritten Shape Recognition Using Segmental Hidden Markov Models.
Information Access via Topic Hierarchies and Thematic Annotations from Document Collections.
Analyse de la robustesse des algorithmes de méta-recherche discriminante.
Ranking with ordered weighted pairwise classification.
Filtrage Collaboratif avec un Algorithme d'Ordonnancement.
UPMC/LIP6 at ImageCLEFannotation2009: Large Scale Visual Concept Detection and Annotation.
Apprentissage d'une hiérarchie de concepts pour la conception de modèles de domaine d'hypermédias.
Corpus-Based Structure Mapping of XML Document Corpora: A Reinforcement Learning Based Model.
Learning Compact Class Codes for Fast Inference in Large Multi Class Classification.
WhichStreams: A Dynamic Approach for Focused Data Capture from Large Social Media.
Calibration and regret bounds for order-preserving surrogate losses in learning to rank.
Neural models for extracting speaker characteristics in speech modelization systems.
LIP6 at INEX'10: OWPC for Ad Hoc Track.
Apprentissage non-supervisé pour la segmentation automatique de textes.
Une méthode contextuelle d'extension de requête avec des groupements de mots pour le résumé automatique.
Comparing neural networks and data analysis.
Predicting Information Diffusion in Social Networks Using Content and User's Profiles.
Leveraging Rating Behavior to Predict Negative Social Ties.
A Framework for the Cooperation of Learning Algorithms.
The Wikipedia XML corpus.
Bayesian Networks and INEX.
Cross-Domain Recommendation via Cluster-Level Latent Factor Model.
A Machine Learning Model for Information Retrieval with Structured Documents.
Classification de Sentiments Multi-Domaines et Passage à l'Echelle.
Prédiction de liens temporels en intégrant les informations de contenu et de structure.
OCReP: An Optimally Conditioned Regularization for Pseudoinversion Based Neural Training.
