Accelerated Parallel Optimization Methods for Large Scale Machine Learning.
Fast back-propagation learning methods for large phonemic neural networks.
Making sense of customer tickets in cellular networks.
Connectionist segmental post-processing of the n-best solutions in isolated and connected word recognition task.
Connectionist speech recognition with a global MMI algorithm.
Fast transpose methods for kernel learning on sparse data.
DjVu: Analyzing and Compressing Scanned Documents for Internet Distribution.
Aspects of named entity processing.
Lattice kernels for spoken-dialog classification.
Modifying boosted trees to improve performance on task 1 of the 2006 KDD challenge cup.
Sequence classification for machine translation.
Rational Kernels: Theory and Algorithms.
Understanding the complexity of 3G UMTS network performance.
Statistical Machine Translation through Global Lexical Selection and Sentence Reconstruction.
Multi-State Time Delay Networks for Continuous Speech Recognition.
Efficient Multiclass Implementations of L1-Regularized Maximum Entropy
Support vector machines for histogram-based image classification.
Efficient Conversion of Digital Documents to Multilayer Raster Formats.
Latent semantic rational kernels for topic spotting on conversational speech.
Scaling large margin classifiers for spoken language understanding.
Rational Kernels.
Semantic Data Mining of Short Utterances.
AT&T Research at 2007.
Escaping the Convex Hull with Extrapolated Vector Machines.
Exploiting Network Structure for Proactive Spam Mitigation.
Image and video coding-emerging standards and beyond.
A probabilistic framework for word recognition using phonetic features.
Discriminant learning with minimum memory loss for improved non-vocabulary rejection.
A Fast, Comprehensive Shot Boundary Determination System.
A Learning Approach to Discovering Web Page Semantic Structures.
Time-delay neural networks embedding time alignment: a performance analysis.
Object Recognition with Gradient-Based Learning.
ACAS: automated construction of application signatures.
Finite-state transducer-based statistical machine translation using joint probabilities.
Browsing through High Quality Document Images with DjVu.
Predicting Character-Appropriate Voices for a TTS-based Storyteller System.
Combining Frame and Segment Level Processing via Temporal Pooling for Phonetic Classification.
Weighted automata kernels - general framework and algorithms.
Positive Definite Rational Kernels.
GMM/SVM N-best speaker identification under mismatch channel conditions.
Inferring applications at the network layer using collective traffic statistics.
NEVERMIND, the problem is already fixed: proactively detecting and troubleshooting customer DSL problems.
Boxlets: A Fast Convolution Algorithm for Signal Processing and Neural Networks.
High quality document image compression with "DjVu".
DjVu: a Compression Method for Distributing Scanned Documents in Color over the Internet.
Rule-Based Anomaly Detection on IP Flows.
Optimizing SVMs for complex call classification.
Color Documents on the Web with DJVU.
A Modular Machine Learning System for Flow-Level Traffic Classification in Large Networks.
A new probabilistic framework for connectionist time alignment.
