Efficient Nonlinear Markov Models for Human Motion.
The informed sampler: A discriminative approach to Bayesian inference in generative computer vision models.
Sparse Convolutional Networks using the Permutohedral Lattice.
Superpixel Convolutional Networks using Bilateral Inceptions.
Recovering Intrinsic Images with a Global Sparsity Prior on Reflectance.
Multi-View and 3D Deformable Part Models.
3D2PM - 3D Deformable Part Models.
The rate adapting poisson model for information retrieval and object recognition.
3D Object Class Detection in the Wild.
The Informed Sampler: A Discriminative Approach to Bayesian Inference in Generative Computer Vision Models.
Superpixel Convolutional Networks Using Bilateral Inceptions.
Permutohedral Lattice CNNs.
Multi-View Priors for Learning Detectors from Sparse Viewpoint Data.
Pattern Recognition - 37th German Conference, GCPR 2015, Aachen, Germany, October 7-10, 2015, Proceedings
Deterministic Annealing for Multiple-Instance Learning.
Scene Carving: Scene Consistent Image Retargeting.
On feature combination for multiclass object classification.
Keep It SMPL: Automatic Estimation of 3D Human Pose and Shape from a Single Image.
3D object class detection in the wild.
DeepCut: Joint Subset Partition and Labeling for Multi Person Pose Estimation.
Intrinsic Video.
Let the kernel figure it out; Principled learning of pre-processing for kernel classifiers.
Occlusion Patterns for Object Class Detection.
Teaching 3D geometry to deformable part models.
Pottics - The Potts Topic Model for Semantic Image Segmentation.
Poselet Conditioned Pictorial Structures.
On Parameter Learning in CRF-Based Approaches to Object Class Image Segmentation.
Efficient Facade Segmentation Using Auto-context.
Strong Appearance and Expressive Spatial Models for Human Pose Estimation.
Human Pose Estimation with Fields of Parts.
Keep it SMPL: Automatic Estimation of 3D Human Pose and Shape from a Single Image.
Visibility Maps for Improving Seam Carving.
Efficient 2D and 3D Facade Segmentation using Auto-Context.
2D Human Pose Estimation: New Benchmark and State of the Art Analysis.
Products of Edge-perts.
Learning Output Kernels with Block Coordinate Descent.
Branch&Rank: Non-Linear Object Detection.
Kernel learning approaches for image classification.
Branch&Rank for Efficient Object Detection.
Bayesian color constancy revisited.
A Non-parametric Bayesian Network Prior of Human Pose.
