Spherical Wiener filter.
Stochastic optimization for deep CCA via nonlinear orthogonal iterations.
Reconstruction of articulatory measurements with smoothed low-rank matrix completion.
Stochastic Optimization of PCA with Capped MSG.
On Deep Multi-View Representation Learning: Objectives and Optimization.
Disease Trajectory Maps.
Multiview LSA: Representation Learning via Generalized CCA.
Distributed curve matching in camera networks using projective joint invariant signatures.
An Efficient and Stable Algorithm for Learning Rotations.
Kernel CCA for multi-view learning of acoustic features using articulatory measurements.
Optimized Regression for Efficient Function Evaluation.
Clustering by Left-Stochastic Matrix Factorization.
Similarity-based clustering by left-stochastic matrix factorization.
Unsupervised learning of acoustic features via deep canonical correlation analysis.
Equilibria of Adaptive Wavetable Oscillators with Applications to Beat Tracking.
Learning Multiview Embeddings of Twitter Users.
A First Order Free Lunch for SQRT-Lasso.
Reconstructing latent periods in genome sequences with insertions and deletions.
Optimal estimation and detection in homogeneous spaces.
On Learning Rotations.
Multi-view CCA-based acoustic features for phonetic recognition across speakers and domains.
Deep Canonical Correlation Analysis.
Navigation using a spherical camera.
Deterministic MDPs with Adversarial Rewards and Bandit Feedback.
Stochastic Variance Reduced Optimization for Nonconvex Sparse Learning.
On Deep Multi-View Representation Learning.
Embedding Lexical Features via Low-Rank Tensors.
Multi-view learning with supervision for transformed bottleneck features.
An Improved Convergence Analysis of Cyclic Block Coordinate Descent-type Methods for Strongly Convex Minimization.
Consensus Ranking with Signed Permutations.
Stochastic Optimization for Deep CCA via Nonlinear Orthogonal Iterations.
Localizing time-varying periodicities in symbolic sequences.
Deterministic MDPs with Adversarial Rewards and Bandit Feedback
Estimating correspondence between multiple cameras using joint invariants.
Accelerated Mini-batch Randomized Block Coordinate Descent Method.
Robust Stochastic Principal Component Analysis.
Latent Periodicities in Genome Sequences.
Online Bandit Learning against an Adaptive Adversary: from Regret to Policy Regret.
Adaptive Wavetable Oscillators.
Stochastic optimization for PCA and PLS.
Minimizing bearing bias in tracking by de-coupled rotation and translation estimates.
Stochastic Optimization for Multiview Representation Learning using Partial Least Squares.
