Efficient structured prediction for 3D indoor scene understanding.
Understanding High-Level Semantics by Modeling Traffic Patterns.
Gaussian Processes for Object Categorization.
Lost! Leveraging the Crowd for Probabilistic Visual Self-Localization.
Describing the scene as a whole: Joint object detection, scene classification and semantic segmentation.
Latent Structured Active Learning.
Approximated Structured Prediction for Learning Large Scale Graphical Models
Discriminative Gaussian process latent variable model for classification.
Modeling Human Locomotion with Topologically Constrained Latent Variable Models.
HouseCraft: Building Houses from Rental Ads and Street Views.
Detect What You Can: Detecting and Representing Objects Using Holistic Models and Body Parts.
Globally Convergent Dual MAP LP Relaxation Solvers using Fenchel-Young Margins.
Reduced-Precision Strategies for Bounded Memory in Deep Neural Nets.
Efficient Learning of Structured Predictors in General Graphical Models
Style-Based Motion Synthesis.
3D Traffic Scene Understanding From Movable Platforms.
Human-Machine CRFs for Identifying Bottlenecks in Scene Understanding.
Continuous Markov Random Fields for Robust Stereo Estimation
3D Human Body Tracking Using Deterministic Temporal Motion Models.
Efficient Structured Prediction with Latent Variables for General Graphical Models.
Beat the MTurkers: Automatic Image Labeling from Weak 3D Supervision.
Combining discriminative and generative methods for 3D deformable surface and articulated pose reconstruction.
segDeepM: Exploiting Segmentation and Context in Deep Neural Networks for Object Detection.
A constrained latent variable model.
Holistic Scene Understanding for 3D Object Detection with RGBD Cameras.
Unsupervised feature selection via distributed coding for multi-view object recognition.
Aligning Books and Movies: Towards Story-like Visual Explanations by Watching Movies and Reading Books.
Implicitly Constrained Gaussian Process Regression for Monocular Non-Rigid Pose Estimation.
Tell Me What You See and I Will Show You Where It Is.
Find your Way by Observing the Sun and Other Semantic Cues.
Box in the Box: Joint 3D Layout and Object Reasoning from Single Images.
Instance-Level Segmentation with Deep Densely Connected MRFs.
Human-Machine CRFs for Identifying Bottlenecks in Holistic Scene Understanding.
Order-Embeddings of Images and Language.
Enhancing Road Maps by Parsing Aerial Images Around the World.
Efficient Exact Inference for 3D Indoor Scene Understanding.
Topologically-constrained latent variable models.
Efficient Inference of Continuous Markov Random Fields with Polynomial Potentials.
Joint 3D Estimation of Objects and Scene Layout.
Automatic Determination of Shoulder Joint Limits Using Quaternion Field Boundaries.
A High Performance CRF Model for Clothes Parsing.
Sufficient dimension reduction for visual sequence classification.
FollowMe: Efficient Online Min-Cost Flow Tracking with Bounded Memory and Computation.
Learning to segment under various forms of weak supervision.
An Automatic Method For Determining Quaternion Field Boundaries for Ball-and-Socket Joint Limits.
A Family of MCMC Methods on Implicitly Defined Manifolds.
Learning Probabilistic Non-Linear Latent Variable Models for Tracking Complex Activities.
Temporal motion models for monocular and multiview 3D human body tracking.
Distributed message passing for large scale graphical models.
Vision meets robotics: The KITTI dataset.
3D Tracking for Gait Characterization and Recognition.
Monocular Object Instance Segmentation and Depth Ordering with CNNs.
Bayesian Filtering with Online Gaussian Process Latent Variable Models.
Non-linear matrix factorization with Gaussian processes.
Co-training with noisy perceptual observations.
A Primal-Dual Message-Passing Algorithm for Approximated Large Scale Structured Prediction.
Patch-Based Pose Inference with a Mixture of Density Estimators.
Visual Semantic Search: Retrieving Videos via Complex Textual Queries.
Deep Semantic Matching for Optical Flow.
Data-driven animation of hand-object interactions.
Message Passing Inference for Large Scale Graphical Models with High Order Potentials.
Efficient Large-Scale Stereo Matching.
Direct Loss Minimization for Training Deep Neural Nets.
Priors for People Tracking from Small Training Sets.
Sparse Coding for Learning Interpretable Spatio-Temporal Primitives.
Sequential Inference for Deep Gaussian Process.
Hierarchical Implicit Surface Joint Limits to Constrain Video-Based Motion Capture.
Estimating Drivable Collision-Free Space from Monocular Video.
Convex Max-Product over Compact Sets for Protein Folding.
Robust Monocular Epipolar Flow Estimation.
MovieQA: Understanding Stories in Movies through Question-Answering.
Hierarchical implicit surface joint limits for human body tracking.
Supervised hierarchical Pitman-Yor process for natural scene segmentation.
Lost Shopping! Monocular Localization in Large Indoor Spaces.
Continuous Markov Random Fields for Robust Stereo Estimation.
Segmentation of 3D head MR images using morphological reconstruction under constraints and automatic selection of markers.
Globally Convergent Parallel MAP LP Relaxation Solver using the Frank-Wolfe Algorithm.
Monocular 3D Tracking of the Golf Swing.
Bottom-Up Segmentation for Top-Down Detection.
Real-time coarse-to-fine topologically preserving segmentation.
A generative model for 3D urban scene understanding from movable platforms.
What Are You Talking About? Text-to-Image Coreference.
Beyond Feature Points: Structured Prediction for Monocular Non-rigid 3D Reconstruction.
Soccer Field Localization from a Single Image.
Local deformation models for monocular 3D shape recovery.
Factorized Orthogonal Latent Spaces.
Analyzing Semantic Segmentation Using Hybrid Human-Machine CRFs.
3D Object Detection and Viewpoint Estimation with a Deformable 3D Cuboid Model.
Exploiting Semantic Information and Deep Matching for Optical Flow.
3D Object Proposals using Stereo Imagery for Accurate Object Class Detection.
Physically-based motion models for 3D tracking: A convex formulation.
Training Deep Neural Networks via Direct Loss Minimization.
segDeepM: Exploiting segmentation and context in deep neural networks for object detection.
Rank priors for continuous non-linear dimensionality reduction.
Monocular 3-D Tracking of the Golf Swing.
Estimating the 3D Layout of Indoor Scenes and Its Clutter from Depth Sensors.
opologically controlled segmentation of 3D magnetic resonance images of the head by using morphological operators.
3D People Tracking with Gaussian Process Dynamical Models.
Active Learning with Gaussian Processes for Object Categorization.
The Role of Context for Object Detection and Semantic Segmentation in the Wild.
Aligning Books and Movies: Towards Story-Like Visual Explanations by Watching Movies and Reading Books.
Rent3D: Floor-plan priors for monocular layout estimation.
Fully Connected Deep Structured Networks.
Neuroaesthetics in fashion: Modeling the perception of fashionability.
Sparse probabilistic regression for activity-independent human pose inference.
Map-Based Probabilistic Visual Self-Localization.
Learning Deep Structured Models.
Generating Multi-sentence Natural Language Descriptions of Indoor Scenes.
Efficient Joint Segmentation, Occlusion Labeling, Stereo and Flow Estimation.
A Sentence Is Worth a Thousand Pixels.
Skip-Thought Vectors.
Detect What You Can: Detecting and Representing Objects using Holistic Models and Body Parts.
Holistic 3D scene understanding from a single geo-tagged image.
Learning to Recognize Objects from Unseen Modalities.
Generating Multi-Sentence Lingual Descriptions of Indoor Scenes.
Are we ready for autonomous driving? The KITTI vision benchmark suite.
3D Object Proposals for Accurate Object Class Detection.
Multi-View Learning in the Presence of View Disagreement
Transductive Gaussian processes for image denoising.
