Better Word Representations with Recursive Neural Networks for Morphology.
Spectral Chinese Restaurant Processes: Nonparametric Clustering Based on Similarities.
Pointer Sentinel Mixture Models.
Improving Word Representations via Global Context and Multiple Word Prototypes.
A Neural Network for Factoid Question Answering over Paragraphs.
Ask Me Anything: Dynamic Memory Networks for Natural Language Processing.
Dynamic Memory Networks for Visual and Textual Question Answering.
Semi-Supervised Recursive Autoencoders for Predicting Sentiment Distributions.
MetaMind Neural Machine Translation System for WMT 2016.
Towards total scene understanding: Classification, annotation and segmentation in an automatic framework.
Zero-Shot Learning Through Cross-Modal Transfer.
Reasoning With Neural Tensor Networks for Knowledge Base Completion.
Improved Semantic Representations From Tree-Structured Long Short-Term Memory Networks.
A Bayesian Analysis of Dynamics in Free Recall.
Semantic Compositionality through Recursive Matrix-Vector Spaces.
Glove: Global Vectors for Word Representation.
Deep Learning for NLP (without Magic).
Zero-Shot Learning Through Cross-Modal Transfer
Learning New Facts From Knowledge Bases With Neural Tensor Networks and Semantic Word Vectors
Bilingual Word Embeddings for Phrase-Based Machine Translation.
A learning based hierarchical model for vessel segmentation.
Scaling short-answer grading by combining peer assessment with algorithmic scoring.
Deep Learning for Sentiment Analysis - Invited Talk.
Parsing with Compositional Vector Grammars.
ImageNet: A large-scale hierarchical image database.
Dynamic Pooling and Unfolding Recursive Autoencoders for Paraphrase Detection.
Grounded Compositional Semantics for Finding and Describing Images with Sentences.
Connecting modalities: Semi-supervised segmentation and annotation of images using unaligned text corpora.
Parsing Natural Scenes and Natural Language with Recursive Neural Networks.
Convolutional-Recursive Deep Learning for 3D Object Classification.
Global Belief Recursive Neural Networks.
