Learning Object Categories from Google's Image Search.
Nonparametric image parsing using adaptive neighbor sets.
Learning invariant features through topographic filter maps.
Spectral Hashing.
Indoor Segmentation and Support Inference from RGBD Images.
Multidimensional Spectral Hashing.
A Bayesian Approach to Unsupervised One-Shot Learning of Object Categories.
Depth Map Prediction from a Single Image using a Multi-Scale Deep Network.
C3D: Generic Features for Video Analysis.
Learning Spatiotemporal Features with 3D Convolutional Networks.
Blind deconvolution using a normalized sparsity measure.
80 Million Tiny Images: A Large Data Set for Nonparametric Object and Scene Recognition.
Pose-Sensitive Embedding by Nonlinear NCA Regression.
Learning Object Categories From Internet Image Searches.
Learning Multiagent Communication with Backpropagation.
Visualizing and Understanding Convolutional Networks.
Small codes and large image databases for recognition.
Learning from Noisy Labels with Deep Neural Networks.
Differentiable Pooling for Hierarchical Feature Learning
Beyond frontal faces: Improving Person Recognition using multiple cues.
Deconvolutional networks.
Semantic Label Sharing for Learning with Many Categories.
Case for Automated Detection of Diabetic Retinopathy.
Learning to Discover Efficient Mathematical Identities.
A Sparse Object Category Model for Efficient Learning and Exhaustive Recognition.
Simple Baseline for Visual Question Answering.
Dark flash photography.
Learning Simple Algorithms from Examples.
Indoor scene segmentation using a structured light sensor.
Restoring an Image Taken through a Window Covered with Dirt or Rain.
Intriguing properties of neural networks.
Predicting Depth, Surface Normals and Semantic Labels with a Common Multi-scale Convolutional Architecture.
Weakly Supervised Memory Networks.
A Hybrid Neural Network-Latent Topic Model.
Facial Expression Transfer with Input-Output Temporal Restricted Boltzmann Machines.
Weakly Supervised Scale-Invariant Learning of Models for Visual Recognition.
Visual object category recognition.
Beyond Frontal Faces: Improving Person Recognition Using Multiple Cues.
One-Shot Learning of Object Categories.
Deep Generative Image Models using a Laplacian Pyramid of Adversarial Networks.
A Visual Category Filter for Google Images.
Image and depth from a conventional camera with a coded aperture.
OverFeat: Integrated Recognition, Localization and Detection using Convolutional Networks.
Object Class Recognition by Unsupervised Scale-Invariant Learning.
Instance Segmentation of Indoor Scenes Using a Coverage Loss.
End-to-end integration of a Convolutional Network, Deformable Parts Model and non-maximum suppression.
Deep Poselets for Human Detection.
End-To-End Memory Networks.
A Sparse Object Category Model for Efficient Learning and Complete Recognition.
Predicting Depth, Surface Normals and Semantic Labels with a Common Multi-Scale Convolutional Architecture.
Learning generative visual models from few training examples: An incremental Bayesian approach tested on 101 object categories.
Learning Generative Visual Models from Few Training Examples: An Incremental Bayesian Approach Tested on 101 Object Categories.
Convolutional Learning of Spatio-temporal Features.
Deep End2End Voxel2Voxel Prediction.
Web scale photo hash clustering on a single machine.
Deep Neural Networks Predict Category Typicality Ratings for Images.
Semi-Supervised Learning in Gigantic Image Collections.
Fast Image Deconvolution using Hyper-Laplacian Priors.
Understanding Deep Architectures using a Recursive Convolutional Network.
Exploiting Linear Structure Within Convolutional Networks for Efficient Evaluation.
Removing camera shake from a single photograph.
Stochastic Pooling for Regularization of Deep Convolutional Neural Networks
Object Recognition by Scene Alignment.
End-to-End Integration of a Convolutional Network, Deformable Parts Model and Non-Maximum Suppression.
Sampling Methods for Unsupervised Learning.
User Conditional Hashtag Prediction for Images.
Adaptive deconvolutional networks for mid and high level feature learning.
Regularization of Neural Networks using DropConnect.
Improving Image Classification with Location Context.
Learning Physical Intuition of Block Towers by Example.
Blind Deconvolution with Re-weighted Sparsity Promotion.
MazeBase: A Sandbox for Learning from Games.
Learning invariance through imitation.
