Learning to Segment Object Candidates.
Joint RNN-Based Greedy Parsing and Word Composition.
Half Transductive Ranking.
Wav2Letter: an End-to-End ConvNet-based Speech Recognition System.
Speech & face based biometric authentication at IDIAP.
SVMTorch: Support Vector Machines for Large-Scale Regression Problems.
Implementing Neural Networks Efficiently.
Large scale manifold transduction.
Recurrent Convolutional Neural Networks for Scene Parsing.
Semi-Supervised Sequence Labeling with Self-Learned Features.
N-gram-Based Low-Dimensional Representation for Document Classification.
From image-level to pixel-level labeling with Convolutional Networks.
Curriculum learning.
Learning to Refine Object Segments.
Large Scale Transductive SVMs.
Inference with the Universum.
Neural Network-based Word Alignment through Score Aggregation.
Deep Neural Networks for Syntactic Parsing of Morphologically Rich Languages.
Deep learning via semi-supervised embedding.
Supervised Semantic Indexing.
Weakly Supervised Semantic Segmentation with Convolutional Networks.
Joint phoneme segmentation inference and classification using CRFs.
ProNet: Learning to Propose Object-specific Boxes for Cascaded Neural Networks.
Deep Learning for Efficient Discriminative Parsing.
Rehabilitation of Count-Based Models for Word Vector Representations.
A unified architecture for natural language processing: deep neural networks with multitask learning.
Learning to rank with (a lot of) word features.
A Parallel Mixture of SVMs for Very Large Scale Problems.
Rehabilitation of Count-based Models for Word Vector Representations.
"The Sum of Its Parts": Joint Learning of Word and Phrase Representations with Autoencoders.
Phrase-based Image Captioning.
Combining labeled and unlabeled data with word-class distribution learning.
Video (language) modeling: a baseline for generative models of natural videos.
Deep learning from temporal coherence in video.
Natural Language Processing (almost) from Scratch
Natural Language Processing (Almost) from Scratch.
End-to-end Phoneme Sequence Recognition using Convolutional Neural Networks.
Deep Learning for Character-Based Information Extraction.
Scaling Large Learning Problems with Hard Parallel Mixtures.
Deep Learning via Semi-supervised Embedding.
A gentle Hessian for efficient gradient descent.
Estimating phoneme class conditional probabilities from raw speech signal using convolutional neural networks.
Recurrent Greedy Parsing with Neural Networks.
Polynomial Semantic Indexing.
Recurrent Convolutional Neural Networks for Scene Labeling.
Supervised semantic indexing.
Phrase Representations for Multiword Expressions.
Convolutional Neural Networks-based continuous speech recognition using raw speech signal.
Learning linearly separable features for speech recognition using convolutional neural networks.
Analysis of CNN-based speech recognition system using raw speech as input.
Links between perceptrons, MLPs and SVMs.
Trading convexity for scalability.
Learning Structured Embeddings of Knowledge Bases.
Introduction to the special issue on learning semantics.
Estimating Phoneme Class Conditional Probabilities from Raw Speech Signal using Convolutional Neural Networks
Fast Semantic Extraction Using a Novel Neural Network Architecture.
Word Embeddings through Hellinger PCA.
Semi-supervised Abstraction-Augmented String Kernel for Multi-level Bio-Relation Extraction.
Towards Understanding Situated Natural Language.
Simple Image Description Generator via a Linear Phrase-Based Approach.
