Cascade object detection with deformable part models.
Reducing Overfitting in Deep Networks by Decorrelating Representations.
Rich feature hierarchies for accurate object detection and semantic segmentation.
Understanding Objects in Detail with Fine-Grained Attributes.
Generalized Sparselet Models for Real-Time Multiclass Object Recognition.
Using k-Poselets for Detecting People and Localizing Their Keypoints.
LSDA: Large Scale Detection Through Adaptation.
Indoor Scene Understanding with RGB-D Images: Bottom-up Segmentation, Object Detection and Semantic Segmentation.
Object Detection Networks on Convolutional Feature Maps.
Simulating Chinese brush painting: the parametric hairy brush.
Caffe: Convolutional Architecture for Fast Feature Embedding.
Object Detection with Discriminatively Trained Part-Based Models.
Hypercolumns for object segmentation and fine-grained localization.
Visual object detection with deformable part models.
Aligning 3D models to RGB-D images of cluttered scenes.
Simultaneous Detection and Segmentation.
Rich Feature Hierarchies for Accurate Object Detection and Semantic Segmentation.
Learning Visual Classifiers using Human-centric Annotations.
Discriminative Latent Variable Models for Object Detection.
Deep3D: Fully Automatic 2D-to-3D Video Conversion with Deep Convolutional Neural Networks.
LSDA: Large Scale Detection through Adaptation.
Contextual Action Recognition with R*CNN.
Training Deformable Part Models with Decorrelated Features.
The three R's of computer vision: Recognition, reconstruction and reorganization.
Visual Storytelling.
Actions and Attributes from Wholes and Parts.
You Only Look Once: Unified, Real-Time Object Detection.
Exploring Nearest Neighbor Approaches for Image Captioning.
Deformable part models are convolutional neural networks.
Fast R-CNN.
Learning Rich Features from RGB-D Images for Object Detection and Segmentation.
Training Region-based Object Detectors with Online Hard Example Mining.
Visibility constraints on features of 3D objects.
Efficient regression of general-activity human poses from depth images.
DenseNet: Implementing Efficient ConvNet Descriptor Pyramids.
Unsupervised Deep Embedding for Clustering Analysis.
R-CNNs for Pose Estimation and Action Detection.
Inferring 3D Object Pose in RGB-D Images.
Faster R-CNN: Towards Real-Time Object Detection with Region Proposal Networks.
Part-based R-CNNs for Fine-grained Category Detection.
Hypercolumns for Object Segmentation and Fine-grained Localization.
Part-Based R-CNNs for Fine-Grained Category Detection.
On learning to localize objects with minimal supervision.
Microsoft COCO: Common Objects in Context.
Deformable Part Models are Convolutional Neural Networks.
Sparselet Models for Efficient Multiclass Object Detection.
Region-Based Convolutional Networks for Accurate Object Detection and Segmentation.
Low-shot visual object recognition.
Discriminatively Activated Sparselets.
Object Detection with Grammar Models.
Analyzing the Performance of Multilayer Neural Networks for Object Recognition.
Inside-Outside Net: Detecting Objects in Context with Skip Pooling and Recurrent Neural Networks.
Efficient Human Pose Estimation from Single Depth Images.
One-Bit Object Detection: On learning to localize objects with minimal supervision.
