Machine Learning for Multimodal Interaction, Second International Workshop, MLMI 2005, Edinburgh, UK, July 11-13, 2005, Revised Selected Papers
Large-scale content-based audio retrieval from text queries.
Inferring document similarity from hyperlinks.
Scheduled Sampling for Sequence Prediction with Recurrent Neural Networks.
Modeling High-Dimensional Discrete Data with Multi-Layer Neural Networks.
Measuring the performance of face localization systems.
The Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows Part II: Genetic Search.
Offline Recognition of Unconstrained Handwritten Texts Using HMMs and Statistical Language Models.
On automatic annotation of meeting databases.
Speech & face based biometric authentication at IDIAP.
Benchmarking Non-Parametric Statistical Tests.
Shared Context Probabilistic Transducers.
Multi Channel Sequence Processing.
End-to-end text-dependent speaker verification.
F-ratio Client-Dependent Normalisation for Biometric Authentication Tasks.
A Neural Network for Text Representation.
Large-Scale Music Annotation and Retrieval: Learning to Rank in Joint Semantic Spaces
Kernel matching pursuit for large datasets.
Spectral Subband Centroids as Complementary Features for Speaker Authentication.
Robust speech recognition and feature extraction using HMM2.
Show and Tell: A Neural Image Caption Generator.
A Neural Network to Detect Homologies in Proteins.
A Parallel Mixture of SVMs for Very Large Scale Problems.
Developing and enhancing posterior based speech recognition systems.
Show and Tell: Lessons learned from the 2015 MSCOCO Image Captioning Challenge.
Semi-supervised meeting event recognition with adapted HMMs.
A statistical significance test for person authentication.
Boosting word error rates.
Learning the decision function for speaker verification.
A graphical model for chord progressions embedded in a psychoacoustic space.
Face Authentication Competition on the BANCA Database.
The Difficulty of Training Deep Architectures and the Effect of Unsupervised Pre-Training.
User authentication via adapted statistical models of face images.
Multimodal speech processing using asynchronous Hidden Markov Models.
WSABIE: Scaling Up to Large Vocabulary Image Annotation.
Online policy adaptation for ensemble classifiers.
Semi-Supervised Kernel Methods for Regression Estimation.
Scalability Analysis of Audio-Visual Person Identity Verification.
Detecting Group Interest-Level in Meetings.
A unified framework for score normalization techniques applied to text-independent speaker verification.
A supervised learning approach based on STDP and polychronization in spiking neuron networks.
Machine Learning for Multimodal Interaction, Third International Workshop, MLMI 2006, Bethesda, MD, USA, May 1-4, 2006, Revised Selected Papers
A Probabilistic Model for Chord Progressions.
Show and tell: A neural image caption generator.
A kernel trick for sequences applied to text-independent speaker verification systems.
Order Matters: Sequence to sequence for sets.
Robust Features for Frontal Face Authentication in Difficult Image Conditions.
Towards Predicting Optimal Fusion Candidates: A Case Study on Biometric Authentication Tasks.
HMM2- extraction of formant structures and their use for robust ASR.
Extracting information from multimedia meeting collections.
Learning to Retrieve Images from Text Queries with a Discriminative Model.
Evaluation of formant-like features for ASR.
Generating Sentences from a Continuous Space.
Graph-based transformation manifolds for invariant pattern recognition with kernel methods.
Automatic Analysis of Multimodal Group Actions in Meetings.
Dynamical Resource Reservation Scheme in an ATM Network Using Neural Network-Based Traffic Prediction.
Noise-robust multi-stream fusion for text-independent speaker authentication.
Improving face authentication using virtual samples.
Sharing Representations for Long Tail Computer Vision Problems.
Towards Computer Understanding of Human Interactions.
Online adaptive policies for ensemble classifiers.
Phoneme and Sentence-Level Ensembles for Speech Recognition.
Semi-Supervised Adapted HMMs for Unusual Event Detection.
Word embeddings for speech recognition.
The Need for Open Source Software in Machine Learning.
DeViSE: A Deep Visual-Semantic Embedding Model.
A gentle Hessian for efficient gradient descent.
Increasing speech recognition robustness with HMM2.
Use of Modular Architectures for Time Series Prediction.
Training highly multiclass classifiers.
The BANCA Database and Evaluation Protocol.
HMM2- a novel approach to HMM emission probability estimation.
Offline Recognition of Large Vocabulary Cursive Handwritten Text.
On the search for new learning rules for ANNs.
Sound Retrieval and Ranking Using Sparse Auditory Representations.
Group Sparse Coding.
Discriminative keyword spotting.
Large scale image annotation: learning to rank with joint word-image embeddings.
Density estimation using Real NVP.
An Online Sequence-to-Sequence Model Using Partial Conditioning.
Face Verification Using Adapted Generative Models.
An Asynchronous Hidden Markov Model for Audio-Visual Speech Recognition.
A Neural Network to Retrieve Images from Text Queries.
Local collaborative ranking.
On Accuracy/Robustness/Complexity Trade-Offs in Face Verification.
On transforming statistical models for non-frontal face verification.
Estimating the Confidence Interval of Expected Performance Curve in Biometric Authentication using Joint Bootstrap.
Can Chimeric Persons Be Used in Multimodal Biometric Authentication Experiments?.
New Approaches Towards Robust, Adaptive Speech Recognition (invited paper).
An Online Algorithm for Large Scale Image Similarity Learning.
A Discriminative Approach for the Retrieval of Images from Text Queries.
Posterior based keyword spotting with a priori thresholds.
Why Does Unsupervised Pre-training Help Deep Learning?
A Score-Level Fusion Benchmark Database for Biometric Authentication.
Probabilistic Melodic Harmonization.
Tangent Vector Kernels for Invariant Image Classification with SVMs.
Performance Generalization in Biometric Authentication Using Joint User-Specific and Sample Bootstraps.
Special Uses and Abuses of the Fiat-Shamir Passport Protocol.
EER of Fixed and Trainable Fusion Classifiers: A Theoretical Study with Application to Biometric Authentication Tasks.
Learning semantic relationships for better action retrieval in images.
Offline Cursive Word Recognition using Continuous Density Hidden Markov Models Trained with PCA or ICA Features.
End-to-End Text-Dependent Speaker Verification.
Boosting HMMs with an application to speech recognition.
Introduction to the Issue on Statistical Learning Methods for Speech and Language Processing.
A distance model for rhythms.
Hierarchical Multi-stream Posterior Based Speech Recognition System.
Revisiting Distributed Synchronous SGD.
Face Authentication Test on the BANCA Database.
Using Chimeric Users to Construct Fusion Classifiers in Biometric Authentication Tasks: An Investigation.
Investigating Lexical Substitution Scoring for Subtitle Generation.
Taking on the curse of dimensionality in joint distributions using neural networks.
A Novel Approach to Combining Client-Dependent and Confidence Information in Multimodal Biometrics.
Links between perceptrons, MLPs and SVMs.
Large Scale Online Learning of Image Similarity through Ranking.
A Probabilistic Interpretation of SVMs with an Application to Unbalanced Classification.
Improving Fusion with Margin-Derived Confidence in Biometric Authentication Tasks.
Client Dependent GMM-SVM Models for Speaker Verification.
Multimodal Authentication Using Asynchronous HMMs.
Delay learning and polychronization for reservoir computing.
Modeling human interaction in meetings.
HMM and IOHMM modeling of EEG rhythms for asynchronous BCI systems.
Confidence measures for multimodal identity verification.
Discriminative kernel-based phoneme sequence recognition.
Database, protocols and tools for evaluating score-level fusion algorithms in biometric authentication.
Why do multi-stream, multi-band and multi-modal approaches work on biometric user authentication tasks?
Using Web Co-occurrence Statistics for Improving Image Categorization.
Exploring Contextual Information in a Layered Framework for Group Action Recognition.
Automatic speech recognition using dynamic bayesian networks with both acoustic and articulatory variables.
Improving Face Verification Using Skin Color Information.
Using More Informative Posterior Probabilities for Speech Recognition.
Biometric Person Authentication Is a Multiple Classifier Problem.
Machine Learning for Multimodal Interaction, First International Workshop,MLMI 2004, Martigny, Switzerland, June 21-23, 2004, Revised Selected Papers
Predictive models for music.
Learning Influence among Interacting Markov Chains.
Adversarial examples in the physical world.
Writer adaptation techniques in off-line cursive word recognition.
Zero-Shot Learning by Convex Combination of Semantic Embeddings.
Stochastic Learning of Strategic Equilibria for Auctions.
Modeling Interactions from Email Communication.
Large-Scale Object Classification Using Label Relation Graphs.
Large Scale Online Learning of Image Similarity Through Ranking.
ADIOS: Architectures Deep In Output Space.
Secure Implementations of Identification Systems.
Face Verification Competition on the XM2VTS Database.
Use of Genetic Programming for the Search of a New Learning Rule for Neural Networks.
The expected performance curve: a new assessment measure for person authentication.
Probabilistic models for melodic prediction.
Statistical transformations of frontal models for non-frontal face verification.
Guest Editors' Introduction: Special Section on Learning Deep Architectures.
Writer Identification for Smart Meeting Room Systems.
Scaling Large Learning Problems with Hard Parallel Mixtures.
Learning the inter-frame distance for discriminative template-based keyword detection.
A Discriminative Kernel-Based Approach to Rank Images from Text Queries.
Estimating the quality of face localization for face verification.
SVMTorch: Support Vector Machines for Large-Scale Regression Problems.
Modeling Individual and Group Actions in Meetings: A Two-Layer HMM Framework.
Reward Augmented Maximum Likelihood for Neural Structured Prediction.
Joint decoding for phoneme-grapheme continuous speech recognition.
Invariances in kernel methods: From samples to objects.
A comparative study of adaptation methods for speaker verification.
Label Embedding Trees for Large Multi-Class Tasks.
Writer adaptation techniques in HMM based Off-Line Cursive Script Recognition.
Modeling individual and group actions in meetings with layered HMMs.
