The Ignorant Led by the Blind: A Hybrid Human-Machine Vision System for Fine-Grained Categorization.
Spatio-temporal texture synthesis and image inpainting for video applications.
Tropel: Crowdsourcing Detectors with Minimal Training.
Object categorization using co-occurrence, location and appearance.
Robust Object Tracking with Online Multiple Instance Learning.
Semantic Video Segmentation : Exploring Inference Efficiency.
Discriminative Regions: A Substrate for Analyzing Life-Logging Image Sequences.
PlateClick: Bootstrapping Food Preferences Through an Adaptive Visual Interface.
SD-VBS: The San Diego Vision Benchmark Suite.
Objects in Context.
Grouping in the Normalized Cut Framework.
Task Specific Local Region Matching.
Weakly Supervised Object Localization with Stable Segmentations.
Visipedia circa 2015.
On Optimizing Human-Machine Task Assignments.
Matching Shapes.
Ultra-wide Baseline Aerial Imagery Matching in Urban Environments.
Recognizing Groceries in situ Using in vitro Training Data.
Adaptively Learning the Crowd Kernel
Adaptively Learning the Crowd Kernel.
Non-isometric manifold learning: analysis and an algorithm.
Multiclass recognition and part localization with humans in the loop.
Structure and View Estimation for Tomographic Reconstruction: A Bayesian Approach.
On Refractive Optical Flow.
Improved Bird Species Recognition Using Pose Normalized Deep Convolutional Nets.
Blobworld: Image Segmentation Using Expectation-Maximization and Its Application to Image Querying.
Textons, Contours and Regions: Cue Integration in Image Segmentation.
A Feature-Based Approach for Determining Dense Long Range Correspondences.
Can we still avoid automatic face detection?
Globally Optimal Algorithms for Stratified Autocalibration.
Multi-class object localization by combining local contextual interactions.
Context based object categorization: A critical survey.
Framework for Parsing, Visualizing and Scoring Tissue Microarray Images.
ImprovingWeb-based Image Search via Content Based Clustering.
Counting Crowded Moving Objects.
Finding Boundaries in Natural Images: A New Method Using Point Descriptors and Area Completion.
Similarity Comparisons for Interactive Fine-Grained Categorization.
Beyond Pairwise Clustering.
Toward real-time grocery detection for the visually impaired.
Shape contexts enable efficient retrieval of similar shapes.
Learning Visual Clothing Style with Heterogeneous Dyadic Co-Occurrences.
Color- and Texture-based Image Segmentation Using the Expectation-Maximization Algorithm and its Application to Content-Based Image Retrieval.
Fast Feature Pyramids for Object Detection.
Experiments on an RGB-D Wearable Vision System for Egocentric Activity Recognition.
Periodic Motion Detection and Segmentation via Approximate Sequence Alignment.
Fingerprint recognition system performance in the maritime environment.
CAPTCHA-based image labeling on the Soylent Grid.
Big Little Icons.
Detecting Temporally Consistent Objects in Videos through Object Class Label Propagation.
Overcomplete steerable pyramid filters and rotation invariance.
COCO-Text: Dataset and Benchmark for Text Detection and Recognition in Natural Images.
Attribute-Based Detection of Unfamiliar Classes with Humans in the Loop.
Removing pedestrians from Google street view images.
Visual tracking with online Multiple Instance Learning.
Microsoft COCO: Common Objects in Context.
Vision in the Small: Reconstructing the Structure of Protein Macromolecules from Cryo-Electron Micrographs.
Contour and Texture Analysis for Image Segmentation.
Visual Recognition with Humans in the Loop.
Higher order learning with graphs.
Word Spotting in the Wild.
Improving Streaming Video Segmentation with Early and Mid-Level Visual Processing.
Tracking Multiple Mouse Contours (without Too Many Samples).
PhD forum: A distributed architecture for object tracking across intelligent vision sensor network with constrained resources.
Similarity metrics for categorization: From monolithic to category specific.
Active Learning in Face Recognition: Using Tracking to Build a Face Model.
On the non-optimality of four color coding of image partitions.
Spectral Partitioning with Indefinite Kernels Using the Nyström Extension.
Scenes vs. objects: A comparative study of two approaches to context based recognition.
Adaptive ranking of facial attractiveness.
Region-Based Image Retrieval (Eingeladener Vortrag).
Bird Species Categorization Using Pose Normalized Deep Convolutional Nets.
Building a bird recognition app and large scale dataset with citizen scientists: The fine print in fine-grained dataset collection.
Pose, illumination and expression invariant pairwise face-similarity measure via Doppelgänger list comparison.
Locally Uniform Comparison Image Descriptor.
Efficient Spatiotemporal Grouping Using the Nystro"m Method.
Learning Concept Embeddings with Combined Human-Machine Expertise.
Improving streaming video segmentation with early and mid-level visual processing.
Fine-grained Categorization and Dataset Bootstrapping using Deep Metric Learning with Humans in the Loop.
Multiple Instance Learning with Manifold Bags.
Wet fingerprint recognition: Challenges and opportunities.
Multiple Component Learning for Object Detection.
Learning to Traverse Image Manifolds.
Globally Optimal Affine and Metric Upgrades in Stratified Autocalibration.
Blobworld: A System for Region-Based Image Indexing and Retrieval.
Detecting temporally consistent objects in videos through object class label propagation.
Learning Visual Clothing Style with Heterogeneous Dyadic Co-occurrences.
Face Box Shape and Verification.
Recognizing locations with Google Glass: A case study.
Cross-View Image Geolocalization.
Residual Networks are Exponential Ensembles of Relatively Shallow Networks.
Analyzing sedentary behavior in life-logging images.
Match-time covariance for descriptors.
Toward a perceptual space for gloss.
Example based depth from fog.
From Bikers to Surfers: Visual Recognition of Urban Tribes.
Practical Global Optimization for Multiview Geometry.
Structure from Periodic Motion.
Non-rigid surface detection for gestural interaction with applicable surfaces.
End-to-end scene text recognition.
Approximate Thin Plate Spline Mappings.
OpenScan: A Fully Transparent Optical Scan Voting System.
Video text detection and recognition: Dataset and benchmark.
Image and Video Segmentation: The Normalized Cut Framework.
Soylent Grid: it's Made of People.
EdgeSonic: image feature sonification for the visually impaired.
Normalized cuts in 3-D for spinal MRI segmentation.
Supervised Learning of Edges and Object Boundaries.
Relative ranking of facial attractiveness.
Shape Matching and Object Recognition Using Shape Contexts.
Efficient Large-Scale Structured Learning.
Learning deep representations for ground-to-aerial geolocalization.
Finding Pictures of Objects in Large Collections of Images.
Urban tribes: Analyzing group photos from a social perspective.
Context Matters: Refining Object Detection in Video with Recurrent Neural Networks.
Disentangling Nonlinear Perceptual Embeddings With Multi-Query Triplet Networks.
Shape Context: A New Descriptor for Shape Matching and Object Recognition.
Finding objects in image databases by grouping.
Model-Based Halftoning for Color Image Segmentation.
Unsupervised Color Decomposition Of Histologically Stained Tissue Samples.
The Fastest Pedestrian Detector in the West.
Cost-Effective HITs for Relative Similarity Comparisons.
Beyond Semantic Image Segmentation : Exploring Efficient Inference in Video.
Feature Mining for Image Classification.
JBoost Optimization of Color Detectors for Autonomous Underwater Vehicle Navigation.
Strong supervision from weak annotation: Interactive training of deformable part models.
When crowds hold privileges: Bayesian unsupervised representation learning with oracle constraints.
A Feature-based Approach for Dense Segmentation and Estimation of Large Disparity Motion.
Model Order Selection and Cue Combination for Image Segmentation.
From region similarity to category discovery.
Linear embeddings in non-rigid structure from motion.
Yum-me: Personalized Healthy Meal Recommender System.
Automatic co-registration of volumetric images based on implanted fiducial markers.
Editorial: Special Issue on Active and Interactive Methods in Computer Vision.
Re-thinking non-rigid structure from motion.
Generalized Non-metric Multidimensional Scaling.
The Multidimensional Wisdom of Crowds.
Learning Localized Perceptual Similarity Metrics for Interactive Categorization.
Camera Distance from Face Images.
What Went Where.
Efficient Shape Matching Using Shape Contexts.
Structured importance sampling of environment maps.
Integral Channel Features.
Spectral Grouping Using the Nyström Method.
