Learning state-action basis functions for hierarchical MDPs.
Deep Reinforcement Learning With Macro-Actions.
Coarticulation: an approach for generating concurrent plans in Markov decision processes.
Face Recognition Using Foveal Vision.
Hierarchical multi-agent reinforcement learning.
Proximal Reinforcement Learning: A New Theory of Sequential Decision Making in Primal-Dual Spaces.
Coarticulation in Markov Decision Processes.
Aligning Mixed Manifolds.
Optimizing Production Manufacturing Using Reinforcement Learning.
Decision-Theoretic Planning with Concurrent Temporally Extended Actions.
Representation Policy Iteration.
Efficient and Scalable Metadata Management in EB-Scale File Systems.
Value Function Approximation with Diffusion Wavelets and Laplacian Eigenfunctions.
Automatic Programming of Behavior-Based Robots Using Reinforcement Learning.
LEAP: A Learning Apprentice for VLSI Design.
Jointly Learning Data-Dependent Label and Locality-Preserving Projections.
Improving Intelligent Tutoring Systems: Using Expectation Maximization to Learn Student Skill Levels.
Continuous-Time Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning.
Learning Representation and Control in Continuous Markov Decision Processes.
Reasoning about Linguistic Regularities in Word Embeddings using Matrix Manifolds.
An Apprentice-Based Approach to Knowledge Acquisition.
Fast Spectral Learning using Lanczos Eigenspace Projections.
Hierarchically Optimal Average Reward Reinforcement Learning.
A General Framework for Manifold Alignment.
Deep Generative Models for Spectroscopic Analysis on Mars.
Hierarchical Policy Gradient Algorithms.
Hierarchical Memory-Based Reinforcement Learning.
Recent Advances in Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning.
Representation Discovery in Sequential Decision Making.
Decision-Theoretic Planning with Concurrent Temporally Extended Actions
Proto-value functions: developmental reinforcement learning.
Hierarchical Optimization of Policy-Coupled Semi-Markov Decision Processes.
Learning to Take Concurrent Actions.
A Variational Learning Algorithm for the Abstract Hidden Markov Model.
Manifold Warping: Manifold Alignment over Time.
Representation Discovery using Harmonic Analysis
Quantifying Prior Determination Knowledge Using the PAC Learning Model.
DROP: Facilitating distributed metadata management in EB-scale storage systems.
Manifold alignment using Procrustes analysis.
Spatiotemporal Abstraction of Stochastic Sequential Processes.
Finite-Sample Analysis of Proximal Gradient TD Algorithms.
Hierarchical Average Reward Reinforcement Learning.
Switching kalman filters for prediction and tracking in an adaptive meteorological sensing network.
Probabilistic Plan Recognition in Multiagent Systems.
Transfer Learning and Representation Discovery in Intelligent Tutoring Systems.
Multiscale Analysis of Document Corpora Based on Diffusion Models.
Learning to Plan Using Harmonic Analysis of Diffusion Models.
Learning the hierarchical structure of spatial environments using multiresolution statistical models.
Sparse Q-learning with Mirror Descent.
Manifold Alignment without Correspondence.
Constructing basis functions from directed graphs for value function approximation.
Representation Policy Iteration
Average Reward Reinforcement Learning: Foundations, Algorithms, and Empirical Results.
Manifold Spanning Graphs.
An Average-Reward Reinforcement Learning Algorithm for Computing Bias-Optimal Policies.
Adaptive mesh compression in 3D computer graphics using multiscale manifold learning.
The National Science Foundation Workshop on Reinforcement Learning.
Compressing POMDPs Using Locality Preserving Non-Negative Matrix Factorization.
Efficient Hyper-parameter Optimization for NLP Applications.
Proximal Gradient Temporal Difference Learning Algorithms.
Basis Construction from Power Series Expansions of Value Functions.
Learning Hierarchical Partially Observable Markov Decision Process Models for Robot Navigation.
A GPU-Based Approximate SVD Algorithm.
Samuel Meets Amarel: Automating Value Function Approximation Using Global State Space Analysis.
Learning Representation and Control in Markov Decision Processes: New Frontiers.
Sensitive Discount Optimality: Unifying Discounted and Average Reward Reinforcement Learning.
Hybrid Least-Squares Algorithms for Approximate Policy Evaluation.
Proto-value Functions: A Laplacian Framework for Learning Representation and Control in Markov Decision Processes.
Fast direct policy evaluation using multiscale analysis of Markov diffusion processes.
Repairing Disengagement With Non-Invasive Interventions.
Regularized Off-Policy TD-Learning.
Sparse Q-learning with Mirror Descent
A multiagent reinforcement learning algorithm by dynamically merging markov decision processes.
Estimating Student Proficiency Using an Item Response Theory Model.
Manifold Alignment Preserving Global Geometry.
Verification-based Learning: A Generalized Strategy for Inferring Problem-Reduction Methods.
Learning hierarchical models of activity.
Online Monotone Optimization.
To Discount or Not to Discount in Reinforcement Learning: A Case Study Comparing R Learning and Q Learning.
Solving Large Sustainable Supply Chain Networks Using Variational Inequalities.
Multiscale Manifold Learning.
Compact Spectral Bases for Value Function Approximation Using Kronecker Factorization.
Scaling Reinforcement Learning to Robotics by Exploiting the Subsumption Architecture.
A reinforcement learning model of selective visual attention.
Basis Adaptation for Sparse Nonlinear Reinforcement Learning.
Rapid Concept Learning for Mobile Robots.
On the Tractability of Learning from Incomplete Theories.
Hybrid least-squares algorithms for approximate policy evaluation.
Enhancing Transfer in Reinforcement Learning by Building Stochastic Models of Robot Actions.
Learning to Communicate and Act Using Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning.
Approximate Planning with Hierarchical Partially Observable Markov Decision Process Models for Robot Navigation.
Using Determinations in EBL: A Solution to the incomplete Theory Problem.
Heterogeneous Domain Adaptation Using Manifold Alignment.
Basis function construction for hierarchical reinforcement learning.
Projected Natural Actor-Critic.
