Sparse representation features for speech recognition.
Locally-connected and convolutional neural networks for small footprint speaker recognition.
Low-rank matrix factorization for Deep Neural Network training with high-dimensional output targets.
Gradient steepness metrics using extended Baum-Welch transformations for universal pattern recognition tasks.
An evaluation of posterior modeling techniques for phonetic recognition.
Deep scattering spectra with deep neural networks for LVCSR tasks.
Deep convolutional neural networks for LVCSR.
A Sinusoidal Model Approach to Acoustic Landmark Detection and Segmentation for Robust Segment-Based Speech Recognition.
Bayesian compressive sensing for phonetic classification.
Large vocabulary automatic speech recognition for children.
Speaker location and microphone spacing invariant acoustic modeling from raw multichannel waveforms.
Kalman filtering for compressed sensing.
Data selection for language modeling using sparse representations.
Query-by-example keyword spotting using long short-term memory networks.
Exemplar-Based Processing for Speech Recognition: An Overview.
Deep Convolutional Neural Networks for Large-scale Speech Tasks.
Improvements to filterbank and delta learning within a deep neural network framework.
Learning compact recurrent neural networks.
Kernel methods match Deep Neural Networks on TIMIT.
Acoustic modelling with CD-CTC-SMBR LSTM RNNS.
Exemplar-based Sparse Representation phone identification features.
A generalized family of parameter estimation techniques.
An analysis of sparseness and regularization in exemplar-based methods for speech classification.
Optimization Techniques to Improve Training Speed of Deep Neural Networks for Large Speech Tasks.
Developing speech recognition systems for corpus indexing under the IARPA Babel program.
Reducing Computational Complexities of Exemplar-Based Sparse Representations with Applications to Large Vocabulary Speech Recognition.
Island-driven search using broad phonetic classes.
Factored spatial and spectral multichannel raw waveform CLDNNs.
Auto-encoder bottleneck features using deep belief networks.
A comparison of broad phonetic and acoustic units for noise robust segment-based phonetic recognition.
Learning Compact Recurrent Neural Networks.
A voice-commandable robotic forklift working alongside humans in minimally-prepared outdoor environments.
Improved pre-training of Deep Belief Networks using Sparse Encoding Symmetric Machines.
Deep Scattering Spectrum with deep neural networks.
N-best entropy based data selection for acoustic modeling.
Automatic gain control and multi-style training for robust small-footprint keyword spotting with deep neural networks.
Improving training time of Hessian-free optimization for deep neural networks using preconditioning and sampling.
Learning filter banks within a deep neural network framework.
Parallel deep neural network training for LVCSR tasks using blue gene/Q.
Unsupervised Audio Segmentation using Extended Baum-Welch Transformations.
Convolutional neural networks for small-footprint keyword spotting.
Joint training of convolutional and non-convolutional neural networks.
Convolutional, Long Short-Term Memory, fully connected Deep Neural Networks.
Improvements to deep convolutional neural networks for LVCSR.
A convex hull approach to sparse representations for exemplar-based speech recognition.
Convergence of Line Search A-Function Methods.
Parallel Deep Neural Network Training for Big Data on Blue Gene/Q.
A-Functions: A generalization of Extended Baum-Welch transformations to convex optimization.
Deep Belief Networks using discriminative features for phone recognition.
Making Deep Belief Networks effective for large vocabulary continuous speech recognition.
Generalization of extended baum-welch parameter estimation for discriminative training and decoding.
Improving deep neural networks for LVCSR using rectified linear units and dropout.
Enhancing Exemplar-Based Posteriors for Speech Recognition Tasks.
Incorporating sparse representation phone identification features in automatic speech recognition using exponential families.
The Use of isometric transformations and bayesian estimation in compressive sensing for fMRI classification.
Scalable Minimum Bayes Risk Training of Deep Neural Network Acoustic Models Using Distributed Hessian-free Optimization.
Improvements to Deep Convolutional Neural Networks for LVCSR.
Application specific loss minimization using gradient boosting.
An exploration of large vocabulary tools for small vocabulary phonetic recognition.
Sparse representations for text categorization.
Audio classification using extended baum-welch transformations.
Broad phonetic class recognition in a Hidden Markov model framework using extended Baum-Welch transformations.
Learning the speech front-end with raw waveform CLDNNs.
Accelerating Hessian-free optimization for Deep Neural Networks by implicit preconditioning and sampling.
Structured Transforms for Small-Footprint Deep Learning.
