Unifying Count-Based Exploration and Intrinsic Motivation.
Natural evolution strategies.
A linear time natural evolution strategy for non-separable functions.
Exploring parameter space in reinforcement learning.
Episodic Reinforcement Learning by Logistic Reward-Weighted Regression.
Metalearning.
No more pesky learning rates.
Curiosity-driven optimization.
General Video Game Playing.
Benchmarking separable natural evolution strategies on the noiseless and noisy black-box optimization testbeds.
No More Pesky Learning Rates
General Video Game AI: Competition, Challenges and Opportunities.
Ontogenetic and Phylogenetic Reinforcement Learning.
Measuring Intelligence through Games
The 2014 General Video Game Playing Competition.
Better Generalization with Forecasts.
Natural Evolution Strategies
Investigating the impact of adaptation sampling in natural evolution strategies on black-box optimization testbeds.
The organization of behavior into temporal and spatial neighborhoods.
Natural evolution strategies converge on sphere functions.
High dimensions and heavy tails for natural evolution strategies.
Exponential natural evolution strategies.
Benchmarking exponential natural evolution strategies on the noiseless and noisy black-box optimization testbeds.
An Extensible Description Language for Video Games.
A Linear Time Natural Evolution Strategy for Non-Separable Functions
Successor Features for Transfer in Reinforcement Learning.
Natural Evolution Strategies.
Fitness Expectation Maximization.
Prioritized Experience Replay.
Learning to learn by gradient descent by gradient descent.
PyBrain.
Adaptive learning rates and parallelization for stochastic, sparse, non-smooth gradients
Efficient natural evolution strategies.
Towards a Video Game Description Language.
Stochastic search using the natural gradient.
Dueling Network Architectures for Deep Reinforcement Learning.
Benchmarking natural evolution strategies with adaptation sampling on the noiseless and noisy black-box optimization testbeds.
Efficient Natural Evolution Strategies
Studies in Continuous Black-box Optimization.
Unit Tests for Stochastic Optimization.
A scalable neural network architecture for board games.
A Natural Evolution Strategy for Multi-objective Optimization.
Scalable Neural Networks for Board Games.
Countering Poisonous Inputs with Memetic Neuroevolution.
Q-Error as a Selection Mechanism in Modular Reinforcement-Learning Systems.
Comparing natural evolution strategies to BIPOP-CMA-ES on noiseless and noisy black-box optimization testbeds.
Multi-Dimensional Deep Memory Atari-Go Players for Parameter Exploring Policy Gradients.
Universal Value Function Approximators.
A video game description language for model-based or interactive learning.
Coherence Progress: A Measure of Interestingness Based on Fixed Compressors.
