Stochastic gradient adaptation of front-end parameters.
Acoustic modeling using exponential families.
Annealed dropout training of deep networks.
Subspace constrained Gaussian mixture models for speech recognition.
Task adaptation of acoustic and language models based on large quantities of data.
Language Model Estimation for Optimizing End-to-end Performance of a Natural Language Call Routing System.
Restoration of clipped signals with application to speech recognition.
Corrections to "Segmental minimum Bayes-risk decoding for automatic speech recognition".
Discriminative estimation of subspace precision and mean (SPAM) models.
Direct product based deep belief networks for automatic speech recognition.
Adaptation experiments on the SPINE database with the Extended Maximum Likelihood Linear Transformation (EMLLT) model.
Maximum Likelihood Nonlinear Transformations Based on Deep Neural Networks.
Active learning with minimum expected error for spoken language understanding.
Regularized feature-space discriminative adaptation for robust ASR.
Optimal quantization and bit allocation for compressing large discriminative feature space transforms.
Exemplar-based Sparse Representation phone identification features.
Data Augmentation for deep neural network acoustic modeling.
Recent advances in speech recognition system for IBM DARPA communicator.
Multimodal Retrieval With Asymmetrically Weighted Truncated-SVD Canonical Correlation Analysis.
Large vocabulary conversational speech recognition with the extended maximum likelihood linear transformation (EMLLT) model.
Efficient likelihood computation in multi-stream HMM based audio-visual speech recognition.
On designing context sensitive language models for spoken dialog systems.
Trends and advances in speech recognition.
A family of discriminative training criteria based on the F-divergence for deep neural networks.
Refactoring acoustic models using variational expectation-maximization.
Large vocabulary conversational speech recognition with a subspace constraint on inverse covariance matrices.
Reduction of acoustic model training time and required data passes via stochastic approaches to maximum likelihood and discriminative training.
Improving deep neural network acoustic modeling for audio corpus indexing under the IARPA babel program.
Maximum likelihood nonlinear transformations based on deep neural networks.
Conditional maximum likelihood estimation for improving annotation performance of n-gram models incorporating stochastic finite state grammars.
Data augmentation for deep convolutional neural network acoustic modeling.
Deep Multimodal Learning for Audio-Visual Speech Recognition.
Deep Scattering Spectrum with deep neural networks.
Rapid adaptation with linear combinations of rank-one matrices.
Advances in Very Deep Convolutional Neural Networks for LVCSR.
Compacting discriminative feature space transforms for embedded devices.
Restructuring exponential family mixture models.
Investigating Performance of the Discriminative Methods for Long-Term Speaker Adaptation.
Scattering vs. discrete cosine transform features in visual speech processing.
Discriminative Estimation of Subspace Constrained Gaussian Mixture Models for Speech Recognition.
Deep Order Statistic Networks.
Modeling posterior probabilities using the linear exponential family.
Efficient non-linear feature adaptation using Maxout networks.
Discriminative training for full covariance models.
Data Augmentation for Deep Neural Network Acoustic Modeling.
Deep multimodal learning for Audio-Visual Speech Recognition.
Minimum Bayes-risk automatic speech recognition.
Toward domain-independent conversational speech recognition.
Mixtures of Bayesian joint factor analyzers for noise robust automatic speech recognition.
Affine invariant sparse maximum a posteriori adaptation.
Task dependent loss functions in speech recognition: a* search over recognition lattices.
A fast, accurate approximation to log likelihood of Gaussian mixture models.
Exploiting unlabeled data using multiple classifiers for improved natural language call-routing.
A Difference of Convex Functions Approach to Large-Scale Log-Linear Model Estimation.
LVCSR rescoring with modified loss functions: a decision theoretic perspective.
Random Maxout Features.
Segmental minimum Bayes-risk ASR voting strategies.
Incorporating sparse representation phone identification features in automatic speech recognition using exponential families.
State of the art discriminative training of subspace constrained Gaussian mixture models in big training corpora.
Evaluating Deep Scattering Spectra with deep neural networks on large scale spontaneous speech task.
Sparse Maximum A Posteriori adaptation.
A framework for unsupervised transfer learning and application to dialog decision classification.
Refactoring acoustic models using variational density approximation.
Detecting audio-visual synchrony using deep neural networks.
Quantification of injury-related EEG signal changes using Itakura distance measure.
A data visualization and analysis method for natural language call routing system design.
Structuring linear transforms for adaptation using training time information.
Confidence based lattice segmentation and minimum Bayes-risk decoding.
Annealed dropout trained maxout networks for improved LVCSR.
Front-end feature transforms with context filtering for speaker adaptation.
Optimizing speech recognition grammars using a measure of similarity between hidden Markov models.
Sparse Bayesian Factor Analysis for Stereo-based Stochastic Mapping.
Adaptive stereo-based stochastic mapping.
Segmental minimum Bayes-risk decoding for automatic speech recognition.
Combining stochastic average gradient and Hessian-free optimization for sequence training of deep neural networks.
Improving end-to-end performance of call classification through data confusion reduction and model tolerance enhancement.
