Semi-Supervised Classification on Evolutionary Data.
Finding image exemplars using fast sparse affinity propagation.
Practical 3-D object detection using category and instance-level appearance models.
Visual Concept Learning: Combining Machine Vision and Bayesian Generalization on Concept Hierarchies.
Normalized tree partitioning for image segmentation.
Factorized Multi-Modal Topic Model
Latent Task Adaptation with Large-Scale Hierarchies.
MatchNet: Unifying feature and metric learning for patch-based matching.
Beyond spatial pyramids: Receptive field learning for pooled image features.
Caffe: Convolutional Architecture for Fast Feature Embedding.
Grounding spatial relations for human-robot interaction.
Deep Convolutional Ranking for Multilabel Image Annotation.
Why Size Matters: Feature Coding as Nystrom Sampling
TensorFlow: Large-Scale Machine Learning on Heterogeneous Distributed Systems.
Trace Ratio Problem Revisited.
Going deeper with convolutions.
Semi-supervised orthogonal discriminant analysis via label propagation.
Factorized Multi-Modal Topic Model.
Instance-level Semisupervised Multiple Instance Learning.
Learning cross-modality similarity for multinomial data.
Trace Ratio Criterion for Feature Selection.
Front-view vehicle detection by Markov chain Monte Carlo method.
Combining the Best of Convolutional Layers and Recurrent Layers: A Hybrid Network for Semantic Segmentation.
Pooling-Invariant Image Feature Learning
Heavy-tailed Distances for Gradient Based Image Descriptors.
Large-Scale Object Classification Using Label Relation Graphs.
Regularized Tree Partitioning and Its Application to Unsupervised Image Segmentation.
A Category-Level 3D Object Dataset: Putting the Kinect to Work.
Augmented tree partitioning for interactive image segmentation.
Factorized Latent Spaces with Structured Sparsity.
Category-Independent Object-Level Saliency Detection.
Local Regularized Least-Square Dimensionality Reduction.
Learning distance metric for semi-supervised image segmentation.
Learning with Recursive Perceptual Representations.
A category-level 3-D object dataset: Putting the Kinect to work.
Going Deeper with Convolutions.
DeCAF: A Deep Convolutional Activation Feature for Generic Visual Recognition.
On Compact Codes for Spatially Pooled Features.
Distortion-Free Nonlinear Dimensionality Reduction.
One-Shot Adaptation of Supervised Deep Convolutional Models.
