Structured Local Training and Biased Potential Functions for Conditional Random Fields with Application to Coreference Resolution.
Identifying Sources of Opinions with Conditional Random Fields and Extraction Patterns.
BabyTalk: Understanding and Generating Simple Image Descriptions.
Domain Independent Authorship Attribution without Domain Adaptation.
Detecting Visual Text.
Déjà Image-Captions: A Corpus of Expressive Descriptions in Repetition.
OpinionFinder: A System for Subjectivity Analysis.
Adapting a Polarity Lexicon using Integer Linear Programming for Domain-Specific Sentiment Classification.
Finding Deceptive Opinion Spam by Any Stretch of the Imagination
Joint Extraction of Entities and Relations for Opinion Recognition.
Learning General Connotation of Words using Graph-based Algorithms.
Connotation Frames: A Data-Driven Investigation.
Characterizing Stylistic Elements in Syntactic Structure.
Syntactic Stylometry for Deception Detection.
Distributional Footprints of Deceptive Product Reviews.
Segment-Phrase Table for Semantic Segmentation, Visual Entailment and Paraphrasing.
Internet Outages, the Eyewitness Accounts: Analysis of the Outages Mailing List.
Gender Attribution: Tracing Stylometric Evidence Beyond Topic and Genre.
Refer-to-as Relations as Semantic Knowledge.
Success with Style: Using Writing Style to Predict the Success of Novels.
Learning Prototypical Event Structure from Photo Albums.
Predicting Entry-Level Categories.
Using landing pages for sponsored search ad selection.
Event Detection and Factuality Assessment with Non-Expert Supervision.
Hierarchical Sequential Learning for Extracting Opinions and Their Attributes.
Mise en Place: Unsupervised Interpretation of Instructional Recipes.
Connotation Frames: Typed Relations of Implied Sentiment in Predicate-Argument Structure.
Collective Generation of Natural Image Descriptions.
Identifying Expressions of Opinion in Context.
Composing Simple Image Descriptions using Web-scale N-grams.
Learning with Compositional Semantics as Structural Inference for Subsentential Sentiment Analysis.
Automatically Generating Annotator Rationales to Improve Sentiment Classification.
TREETALK: Composition and Compression of Trees for Image Descriptions.
Finding Deceptive Opinion Spam by Any Stretch of the Imagination.
Understanding and Quantifying Creativity in Lexical Composition.
Connotation Lexicon: A Dash of Sentiment Beneath the Surface Meaning.
From Large Scale Image Categorization to Entry-Level Categories.
Large Scale Retrieval and Generation of Image Descriptions.
Learning to name objects.
Where Not to Eat? Improving Public Policy by Predicting Hygiene Inspections Using Online Reviews.
AI's 10 to Watch.
Are Elephants Bigger than Butterflies? Reasoning about Sizes of Objects.
Document-level Sentiment Inference with Social, Faction, and Discourse Context.
Keystroke Patterns as Prosody in Digital Writings: A Case Study with Deceptive Reviews and Essays.
ConnotationWordNet: Learning Connotation over the Word+Sense Network.
Baby talk: Understanding and generating simple image descriptions.
Cornell System Description for the NTCIR-6 Opinion Task.
Language of Vandalism: Improving Wikipedia Vandalism Detection via Stylometric Analysis.
Generalizing Image Captions for Image-Text Parallel Corpus.
