Graph Based Multi-View Learning for Semantic Relation Extraction.
Keyword extraction from a single document using word co-occurrence statistical information.
Like prediction: modeling like counts by bridging facebook pages with linked data.
Relation Classification for Semantic Structure Annotation of Text.
Using Graph Based Method to Improve Bootstrapping Relation Extraction.
Measuring the Degree of Synonymy between Words Using Relational Similarity between Word Pairs as a Proxy.
Graph-based Word Clustering using a Web Search Engine.
Extracting Keyphrases to Represent Relations in Social Networks from Web.
Extracting Relations in Social Networks from the Web Using Similarity Between Collective Contexts.
Keyword Extraction from a Single Document using Word Co-occurrence Statistical Information.
Story-Based Planning in Theme Park.
Measuring the similarity between implicit semantic relations using web search engines.
Average-Clicks: A New Measure of Distance on the World Wide Web.
Automatically Extracting Personal Name Aliases from the Web.
Disambiguating Personal Names on the Web Using Automatically Extracted Key Phrases.
A Web Search Engine-Based Approach to Measure Semantic Similarity between Words.
How to Become Famous in the Microblog World.
A self organizing document map algorithm for large scale hyperlinked data inspired by neuronal migration.
Unsupervised Relation Extraction by Mining Wikipedia Texts Using Information from the Web.
Understanding Rating Behaviour and Predicting Ratings by Identifying Representative Users.
Analysis of User's Relation and Reading Activity in Weblogs.
Spinning Multiple Social Networks for Semantic Web.
POLYPHONET: an advanced social network extraction system from the web.
Community Focused Social Network Extraction.
A Supervised Classification Approach for Measuring Relational Similarity between Word Pairs.
A New Shallow Semantic Parser for Describing the Concept Structure of Text.
Users' Behavioral Analysis on Weblogs.
WWW sits the SAT: Measuring Relational Similarity on the Web.
Social Network and Spatial Semantics for Real-World Information Service.
Relation Adaptation: Learning to Extract Novel Relations with Minimum Supervision.
Finding Social Network for Trust Calculation.
Combining Human Action Sensing of Wheelchair Users and Machine Learning for Autonomous Accessibility Data Collection.
Prediction of social bookmarking based on a behavior transition model.
Predicting Customer Models Using Behavior-Based Features in Shops.
Integration of Artificial Market Simulation and Text Mining for Market Analysis.
Generating Useful Network-based Features for Analyzing Social Networks.
Community gravity: measuring bidirectional effects by trust and rating on online social networks.
Doing Community: Co-construction of Meaning and Use with Interactive Information Kiosks.
Two Transformations of Clauses into Constraints and Their Properties for Cost-Based Hypothetical Reasoning.
Semantic Relation Extraction Based on Semi-supervised Learning.
Relation Extraction from Wikipedia Using Subtree Mining.
Extracting Social Networks Among Various Entities on the Web.
Mining for personal name aliases on the web.
Word Weighting Based on User's Browsing History.
An Augmented Tagging Scheme with Triple Tagging and Collective Filtering.
Smart navigation by lightweight components coordination in ubiquitous computing.
From actors, politicians, to CEOs: domain adaptation of relational extractors using a latent relational mapping.
SL Method for Computing a Near-Optimal Solution Using Linear and Non-linear Programming in Cost-Based Hypothetical Reasoning.
Measuring the similarity between implicit semantic relations from the web.
Multi-View Clustering with Web and Linguistic Features for Relation Extraction.
Rating Prediction by Correcting User Rating Bias.
Social Networks and Reading Bahavior in Blogosphere.
Semantic Twitter: Analyzing Tweets for Real-Time Event Notification.
Annotating an Extension Layer of Semantic Structure for Natural Language Text.
Website Optimization Problem and Its Solutions.
Relations Expansion: Extracting Relationship Instances from the Web.
Automatic Annotation of Ambiguous Personal Names on the Web.
Improving chronological ordering of sentences extracted from multiple newspaper articles.
Identifying Customer Preferences about Tourism Products Using an Aspect-based Opinion Mining Approach.
Ranking Learning on the Web by Integrating Network-Based Features.
Using the web to support political analysis: identifying legislative bill ideology in the chilean parliament.
Mining Longitudinal Network for Predicting Company Value.
Automatic Discovery of Personal Name Aliases from the Web.
Discovering Behavior Patterns from Social Data for Managing Personal Life.
Coherent Arrangement of Sentences Extracted from Multiple Newspaper Articles.
A Co-occurrence Graph-based Approach for Personal Name Alias Extraction from Anchor Texts.
Mining Social Network of Conference Participants from the Web.
Regional analysis of user interactions on social media in times of disaster.
Improving Chronological Sentence Ordering by Precedence Relation.
Toward an Automatic Road Accessibility Information Collecting and Sharing Based on Human Behavior Sensing Technologies of Wheelchair Users.
A Weblog Grounded to the Real World.
Graph Based Multi-View Learning for CDL Relation Classification.
Extracting Topics and Innovators Using Topic Diffusion Process in Weblogs.
Relational duality: unsupervised extraction of semantic relations between entities on the web.
Fast Hypothetical Reasoning by Parallel Processing.
Minimally Supervised Novel Relation Extraction Using a Latent Relational Mapping.
Analyzing Reading Behavior by Blog Mining.
Robust Estimation of Google Counts for Social Network Extraction.
Extracting Key Phrases to Disambiguate Personal Names on the Web.
TISS: An Integrated Summarization System for TSC-3.
Sentence Extraction by Spreading Activation with Refined Similarity Measure.
Mining dynamic social networks from public news articles for company value prediction.
A Self-Impact Analysis by Artificial Market Simulation.
Tweet Analysis for Real-Time Event Detection and Earthquake Reporting System Development.
KeyWorld: Extracting Keywords from a Document as a Small World.
Emergence of global network property based on multi-agent voting model.
Integration of artificial market simulation and text mining for market analysis.
An estimation of wheelchair user's muscle fatigue by accelerometers on smart devices.
Road Sensing: Personal Sensing and Machine Learning for Development of Large Scale Accessibility Map.
Ranking Learning Entities on the Web by Integrating Network-Based Features.
Generating Social Network Features for Link-Based Classification.
Socially embedded multi agent based simulation of financial market.
Social Network Extraction of Conference Participants.
Multi-view Bootstrapping for Relation Extraction by Exploring Web Features and Linguistic Features.
Measuring semantic similarity between words using web search engines.
Extracting inter-firm networks from the World Wide Web using a general-purpose search engine.
SL method for computing a near-optimal solution using linear and non-linear programming in cost-based hypothetical reasoning.
A Document as a Small World.
Context-Aware Weblog to Enhance Communication among Participants in a Conference.
Behavioral Analysis Based on Relations in Weblogs.
Featuring web communities based on word co-occurrence structure of communications: 736.
Prediction, Forecasting, and Chance Discovery.
POLYPHONET: An advanced social network extraction system from the Web.
Diffusion of Recommendation through a Trust Network.
Two Different Summarization Methods at NTCIR3-TSC2: Coverage Oriented and Focus Oriented.
Mining Scholarly Semantic Networks from the Web.
Subtree Mining for Relation Extraction from Wikipedia.
MIGSOM: A SOM Algorithm for Large Scale Hyperlinked Documents Inspired by Neuronal Migration.
Collaborative exploratory search in real-world context.
Earthquake shakes Twitter users: real-time event detection by social sensors.
A Relational Model of Semantic Similarity between Words using Automatically Extracted Lexical Pattern Clusters from the Web.
Spatial Function Representation and Retrieval.
Inferring Long-term User Properties Based on Users' Location History.
An Integrated Approach to Measuring Semantic Similarity between Words Using Information Available on the Web.
Whole Brain Architecture Approach Is a Feasible Way Toward an Artificial General Intelligence.
Extracting Inter-Firm Networks fromWorldWideWeb.
Real-world oriented information sharing using social networks.
