A Lightweight DDoS Flooding Attack Detection Algorithm Based on Synchronous Long Flows.
Self-Avoiding Random Dynamics on Integer Complex Systems.
A low-complexity sensor fusion algorithm based on a fiber-optic gyroscope aided camera pose estimation system.
Adaptive MCMC with Bayesian Optimization.
Bayesian Optimization in a Billion Dimensions via Random Embeddings
Performance Analysis of Multi-Fiber WDM Network with Limited-Range Wavelength Conversion.
A bag-of-regions representation for video classification.
Performance Analysis of TCP Variants over Time-Space-Labeled Optical Burst Switched Networks.
A novel technique to cover microfluidic systems with Parylene-C.
A spatio-temporal pyramid matching for video retrieval.
An On-Line Anomaly Detection Method Based on a New Stationary Metric - Entropy-Ratio.
Bayesian Optimization in a Billion Dimensions via Random Embeddings.
Performance analysis of multi-fiber WDM network with limited-range wavelength conversion.
Deep Fried Convnets.
Analysis of Photovoltaic Charging System Based on MPPT.
Taking the Human Out of the Loop: A Review of Bayesian Optimization.
Design of high-spatial resolution remote sensing data processing system and its implementation.
An Entropy Search Portfolio for Bayesian Optimization.
Bayesian Optimization in High Dimensions via Random Embeddings.
Heteroscedastic Treed Bayesian Optimisation.
Performance analysis of a new random access protocol for OCDMA networks.
Theoretical Analysis of Bayesian Optimisation with Unknown Gaussian Process Hyper-Parameters.
Bayesian Optimisation for Machine Translation.
A New Anomaly Detection Method Based on IGTE and IGFE.
Security performance analysis of an M-code keying OCDMA system.
Bayesian Multi-Scale Optimistic Optimization.
Dueling Network Architectures for Deep Reinforcement Learning.
Object-oriented classification and application in land use classification using SPOT-5 PAN imagery.
MBST: Detecting Packet-Level Traffic Anomalies by Feature Stability.
Film Bulk Acoustic-Wave Resonator based radiation sensor.
Towards online anomaly detection by combining multiple detection methods and Storm.
A low-complexity and energy-efficient dynamical adjustment strategy for servers in a data center.
Improved watershed segmentation algorithm for high resolution remote sensing images using texture.
Packing the most onto your cloud.
Detection of forestland degradation using Landsat TM data in panda's habitat, Sichuan, China.
An on-line anomaly detection method based on LMS algorithm.
Film Bulk Acoustic-wave Resonator (FBAR) based humidity sensor.
Film Bulk Acoustic-wave Resonator (FBAR) based infrared sensor.
Two-stage detection algorithm for RoQ attack based on localized periodicity analysis of traffic anomaly.
A new family of 2D variable-weight optical orthogonal codes for OCDMA systems supporting multiple QoS and analysis of its performance.
Adaptive Hamiltonian and Riemann Manifold Monte Carlo.
Geographical information system of excavated high slopes in the Three Gorges Reservoir Areas, China.
